{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c13725\c13725\c13725;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title\cb1 \
\cb3 Womb chair\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Description\cb1 \
\cb3 What is the difference between a living room and a war room (also called a control room, operations room, and situation room)? For Eero Saarinen, an architect who graduated from Yale architecture in 1934 and who worked for the U.S. Office of Strategic Services during World War II, what connects\'a0lounging\'a0and\'a0strategizing\'a0is the\'a0chair. In fact, according to Mina Marefat, \'93It was because of designing the war rooms that [Saarinen] got so much into chairs.\'94 Saarinen\'92s career-long effort to create harmony between a room and its contents gave rise to an aesthetic principle of \'93a continuing flowing line.\'94 This quasi-spiritual yet quasi-scientific metaphor has its origins in Saarinen's contributions to U.S. intelligence\'97specifically, his creation of visual flow charts. Evoking both organicity and structure, a "flowing line" describes a chair's aesthetic\'a0and\'a0strategic position within an organizational whole.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Saarinen\'92s array of modernist chairs (the grasshopper, the tulip, the pedestal, the womb) all derive their aesthetic poignancy from their relation to the layout of an architectural space and to the other objects within this space. The Womb chair, designed to hold the body in a soft recline, tends to appear in living rooms. For example, this chair\'92s most iconic visualization is on a Norman Rockwell cover for the\'a0Saturday Evening Post\'a0(1959). This image (see above) shows a disheveled father sporting a cigarette and holding the newspaper. Slouching low in the Womb chair, he seems overly relaxed but has a slightly furtive look. With a sideways glance, he seals himself away from his wife and children, on their way to church on Easter Sunday.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 The domestic living room, itself a kind of a womb, appears to be the obverse of a war room. Yet one can easily picture this same father\'97his limbs arranged just so, his face brimming with insouciance and paranoia, his body surrounded by a chaos of information\'97in a room designed for geostrategic planning. In Pamela M. Lee\'92s account of Chilean leader Salvador Allende\'92s \'93Opsroom,\'94 the chairs are armed (yes, weaponized) with a keyboard on one side and an ashtray on the other so as to ensure a mood of \'93recumbent cogitation.\'94 As Lee notes, these chairs, made of fiberglas, bear a canny resemblance to Saarinen\'92s tulip chairs. Fiberglas, a new synthetic material first used for U.S. military ships and aviation during World War II, was part of the modern touch that Saarinen brought to many of his furniture designs. In fact, the Womb chair was the world\'92s first mass-produced fiberglas chair, and its distinctive shell and foamed rubber seat owe something to the United States' investment in new materials and plastic technologies during the Second World War. Despite the negative connotations that the word \'93plastic\'94 now evokes, Saarinen viewed fiberglas and other plastics as a source of organicity and formal integrity. His chairs were molded rather than carved. Aesthetically, they have the appearance of a sculpture. Yet unlike the cool, hard, sleek, and angular kinds of well-sculpted furniture that one associates with "mid-century modern," Saarinen\'92s Womb chair uses plastics to convey warmth and fluidity. The chair is designed with ergonomics in mind, inviting repose while allowing the sitter to recompose. The chair does not designate a single position as \'93comfortable,\'94 but locates comfort in a multiplicity of shifting positions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 I haven\'92t found what kind of materials were intended for the chairs that populate Saarinen\'92s own war room, of which a sketch remains (see above). When considered as an individual unit, these chairs look nothing like Allende\'92s futuristic spaceship chairs or Saarinen\'92s own contoured lounging chairs. But if we view these war room chairs as Saarinen would want us to\'97that is, in relation to the interior space\'97it becomes possible to discern the compositional elements of what would become postwar comfort. The room that Saarinen has sketched out could be mistaken for a conference room or a dining room, if not for the visual displays. One is a world map that uses the classic motif of the octopus to represent the Axis advance. The other is a flow chart, the device that Saarinen was credited with revolutionizing during his OSS service. Saarinen's papers show that he attempted to visually chart \'93flow\'94 with respect to the management of troops, the movement of supplies, the organization of an administrative unit, and various other logistical problems. In all these capacities, the flow chart connotes control, order, preparedness, and advancement. As a managerial and strategic tool, it projects an aesthetic of symmetry and a politics of democratic openness. In this particular sketch, the rectangular yet curvilinear chart mirrors how the chairs in the room are arranged. The chairs, like the chart, give shape to the flow of information. The circular layout ensures that every sitter is directed towards the same central conversation while also accommodating side-by-side interpersonal chatter. Despite this democratic ethos, there is a clear sense of who occupies the head of the table and who possesses access to the heart of the deliberations. The chairs themselves are both functional and comfortable. Their design assists upright attention, though they are also conspicuously padded. They are airy and capacious, their expansive seating area allowing both space and intimacy between each person. There is plenty of space to shift, stretch, swivel, and recompose the limbs without interfering with a neighbor. Each sitter is primed for maximal engagement while also retaining the right to personal comfort.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Like Rockwell\'92s living room, Saarinen\'92s war room emphasizes openness through the large windows. Whereas the \'93open plan\'94 of modernist interior design serves to harmonize the interior and exterior spaces, the openness of the war room projects a stronger ideological message. In Saarinen\'92s sketch, the large windows throw light on the flow chart, suggesting a commitment to transparency, even in the context of intelligence gathering. In both the living room and the war room, it is the chairs that balance out the air of openness by creating an overwhelming sense of enclosure. In both rooms, the sitter\'92s body is oriented toward the modern flow of information, be it the weekly news or confidential intelligence. To huddle, retreat, confer, and unwind in an inner sanctum is to have both the privacy of a living room and the secrecy of a war room.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \cb3 \ul Works Consulted\cb1 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Evans, Frances. \'93If I Could Tell a Woman One Thing About Furnishing a Home . . .\'94\'a0Family Circle\'a052, no. 3 (March 1958): 27-33.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Flor\'e9, Fredie and Cammie McAtee, eds.\'a0The Politics of Furniture: Identity, Diplomacy and Persuasion in Post-war Interiors. New York: Routledge, 2017.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Katz, Barry. \'93The Arts of War: \'91Visual Presentation\'92 and National Intelligence.\'94\'a0Design Issues\'a012, no. 2 (1996): 3\'9621.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Lee, Pamela M.\'a0Think Tank Aesthetics: Midcentury Modernism, the Cold War, and the Neoliberal Present. Cambridge: The MIT Press, 2020.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Marefat, Mina. "Documents Reveal Eero Saarinen's Second World War Secrets."\'a0Architectural Review\'a0228, no. 1365 (November 2010): 22-24.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 McAtee, Cammie. \'93Taking Comfort in the Age of Anxiety: Eero Saarinen\'92s Womb Chair.\'94 In\'a0Atomic Dwelling: Anxiety, Domesticity, and Postwar Architecture, ed. Robin Schuldenfrei. New York: Routledge, 2012.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Meikle, Jeffrey L.\'a0American Plastic: A Cultural History. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1995.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 \ul Archives Consulted\cb1 \ulnone \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Eero Saarinen Collection (MS 593). Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library.\'a0\cb1 \
\
\
\cb3 Creator\cb1 \
\cb3 Eero Saarinen\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Date\cb1 \
\cb3 1946-1948\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Format\cb1 \
\cb3 Steel, fiberglass, plastic, wood-particle shell, latex foam\cb1 \
}