{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Yucca Mountain: Abridged Chronology\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Time Immemorial
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Yucca Mountain lies asleep like a snake.\'a0
\f2\i \'96 Corbin Harney, Shoshone elder and spiritual leader (qtd. in Endres 2013, 194)
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 Thousands of Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Human life picks up around Yucca Mountain. Modern names for peoples living in the area include the Paiute, Shoshone, Quoeech, Washoe, and Walapai tribes.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 Three Hundred to One Hundred Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Land including Yucca Mountain is annexed by the Spanish Empire. The same land later constitutes part of the independent nation of Mexico, then part of the independent nation of the United States. The United States signs a treaty with Shoshone and Paiute tribes that grants it the right to limited uses of the land, including the establishment of mines, ranches, settlements, and military posts. At no point do Shoshone or Paiute tribes cede their claim of sovereignty over Yucca Mountain or surrounding land.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 About Eighty Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Tribal and general public access to lands including Yucca Mountain is cut off by the United States\'92 establishment of the Nevada National Security Site (Nevada Test Site) for nuclear testing. Fences, roads, and bunkers crisscross the land. Towns are built to be destroyed by nuclear blasts; data is collected. Various forms of plant and animal life become radioactive. When nuclear tests move underground, subsidence craters appear: formerly flat terrain collapses to form bowl-like depressions above disturbed ground.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Nevada is a \'93national sacrifice zone.\'94 \'96 Danielle Endres (2013, 333)\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 About Seventy Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 As part of its Cold War \'93Atoms for Peace\'94 program, the United States advances nuclear energy as a \'93peaceful\'94 use of nuclear power that can promote global development and expand US influence. Nuclear energy later becomes an important part of US energy independence, considered a key part of national security strategy. Environmental advocates point to nuclear energy as a green alternative to fossil fuels with comparatively low health risk and environmental impact.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 About Forty Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The United States Congress amends the Nuclear Waste Policy Act to designate Yucca Mountain as the only site at which the Department of Energy can develop plans for nuclear waste storage/disposal. Almost all nuclear waste in the United States is produced by the nuclear energy industry, rather than by the manufacture of nuclear weapons.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 About Thirty Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The United States ends full-scale nuclear weapons testing at the Nevada Test Site. Nuclear weapons research and development continues at the site, including \'93subcritical testing.\'94 Hundreds of antinuclear protests are held near Yucca Mountain, involving some 37 thousand participants.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 \'93the physical threat, vague yet omnipresent, structures our response. [\'85] Nuclear landscapes are landscapes of fear.\'94 \'96 Peter Goin, photographer (1991, xix)\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 About Twenty Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The United States government officially authorizes Yucca Mountain as the nation\'92s permanent nuclear waste storage facility, pending Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) licensing. NRC investigations into the viability of nuclear waste storage in Yucca Mountain begin, including the construction of a 5-mile \'93exploratory tunnel\'94 underneath the mountain and the extraction of 75 thousand feet of core and 18 thousand geological and water samples.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Activists including local Native people increase anti-repository organizing efforts in the area. Their activities include \'93scientific monitoring of streams and groundwater; the development of grassroots environmental impact assessments and 'peoples\'92 policies' on nuclear waste; a public art competition to develop a warning sign for Yucca Mountain that could communicate the dangers of radioactive waste for 10,000 years; creative fiction and non-fiction writing; civil disobedience and environmental direct action; documentary film; prayer circles, toxic tours and spirit walks and a travelling mobile museum that documented the atomic history of the region.\'94 (Houston 2012, 425)\cb1 \
\
\cb3 \'93The Yucca Mountain facility is important to achieving a number of our national goals. It will promote our energy security, our national security, and safety in our homeland. It will help strengthen our economy and help us clean up the environment.\'94 \'96 Spencer Abraham, US Secretary of Energy (DOE 2002, 1)\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 About Ten Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The United States government suspends licensing of Yucca Mountain as a nuclear waste disposal site in response to political pressure from the people of Nevada.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 About Two Years Ago
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Having invested twenty years of research and over $10.5 billion in taxpayer money, the United States government cuts all funding for developing Yucca Mountain as a nuclear waste disposal site. No alternative sites for nuclear waste disposal are proposed. To celebrate the occasion, the grassroots organization Citizen Alert closes after 30 years of advocacy.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 \'93Yucca Mountain is dead and will remain dead. This has been true for a long, long time.\'94 \'96 Senator Harry Reid, Twitter (2020)\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 Now
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 United States taxpayers collectively pay about $6 billion per year to manage high-level waste leftover from nuclear weapons development, plus about $500 thousand per year to utility companies that manage nuclear waste produced by the nuclear energy industry. Efforts by the United States government to find a long-term solution to nuclear waste storage have stalled. Yucca Mountain remains essentially inaccessible to local people as a result of government and military regulation. Limited nuclear testing at the Nevada Test Site continues.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 One Hundred Years from Now
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Fossil fuel usage continues to diminish the availability of land hospitable to human life, push down health outcomes, increase \'93natural\'94 disaster, and raise global conflict. Populations in the "developing" world are most acutely affected. Investments in nuclear energy today could mitigate future harm.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 Generations to Come?
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Paiute and Shoshone people maintain legal, cultural, and spiritual ties to their tribal lands. The United States maintains its claim of legal sovereignty over Nevada.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 Unlikely Future
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The nuclear contents of dry storage casks inside Yucca Mountain are depleted; the radioactivity is spent. Cement cylinders remain inside the mountain.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 Tens of Thousands of Years from Now
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Nuclear waste produced today loses its radioactivity.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b \cf2 \cb3 Someday
\f0\i0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Someday when we wake that snake up, we will have to sit down and talk to that snake. It will get mad and rip open. When it awakens, we will all go to sleep. With his tail, that snake will move the mountain, rip it open, and the poison will come out on the surface.\'a0
\f2\i \'96 Corbin Harney (qtd. in Endres 2013, 194)
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 Selected Bibliography\cb1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \
\cb3 Boylan, Jessie. \'93Grievability and Nuclear Memory.\'94\'a0
\f2\i American Quarterly
\f0\i0 \'a071, no. 2 (2019): 379\'9688. https://doi.org/10.1353/aq.2019.0032.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Butcher, Andrew J. \'93In Search of a Remedy to the Nuclear Storage Conundrum: Western Shoshone National Council V. United States.\'94\'a0
\f2\i Energy Law Journal
\f0\i0 \'a028, no. 1 (2007): 207\'9620.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Department of Energy. \'93Recommendation by the Secretary of Energy Regarding the Suitability of the Yucca Mountain Site for a Repository Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982,\'94 February 2002.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Endres, Danielle. \'93Animist Intersubjectivity as Argumentation: Western Shoshone and Southern Paiute Arguments Against a Nuclear Waste Site at Yucca Mountain.\'94\'a0
\f2\i Argumentation
\f0\i0 \'a027, no. 2 (May 1, 2013): 183\'96200. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10503-012-9271-x.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 \'97\'97\'97. \'93Sacred Land or National Sacrifice Zone: The Role of Values in the Yucca Mountain Participation Process.\'94\'a0
\f2\i Environmental Communication
\f0\i0 \'a06, no. 3 (September 2012): 328\'9645. https://doi.org/10.1080/17524032.2012.688060.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 FSI Stanford. \'93Nuclear Waste Costs Americans Billions Every Year.\'94\'a0
\f2\i Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies
\f0\i0 \'a0(blog), July 9, 2018. https://medium.com/freeman-spogli-institute-for-international-studies/nuclear-waste-costs-americans-billions-every-year-3197935352ff.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Goin, Peter.\'a0
\f2\i Nuclear Landscapes
\f0\i0 . Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1991.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Houston, Donna. \'93Environmental Justice Storytelling: Angels and Isotopes at Yucca Mountain, Nevada.\'94\'a0
\f2\i Antipode
\f0\i0 \'a045, no. 2 (March 2013): 417\'9635. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8330.2012.01006.x.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 \'93Reset of America\'92s Nuclear Waste Management Strategy and Policy.\'94 Stanford University Center for International Security and Cooperation; George Washington University Elliott School of International Affairs, October 15, 2018.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Swift, Peter N., and Evaristo J. Bonano. \'93Geological Disposal of Nuclear Waste in Tuff: Yucca Mountain (USA).\'94\'a0
\f2\i Elements
\f0\i0 \'a012, no. 4 (August 1, 2016): 263\'9668. https://doi.org/10.2113/gselements.12.4.263.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 U. S. Government Accountability Office. \'93Nuclear Waste Disposal.\'94 Accessed April 30, 2022. https://www.gao.gov/nuclear-waste-disposal.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. \'93Backgrounder on Radioactive Waste.\'94 NRC Web, July 23, 2019. https://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/fact-sheets/radwaste.html.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Maeva O'Brien\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Maeva O'Brien, \'93Yucca Mountain: Abridged Chronology,\'94\'a0
\f2\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/17.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \
}