{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Wooden cart\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 The dusty wooden cart is barely holding together. It is difficult to move. The rusty, weathered, steel plated wheels have sat in the same position in a basement for over 70 years. It looks mundane, less than ordinary, a remnant of a time long past. Nowadays, in a time of cars, deliveries, and postal services, we no longer have any need for such stiff and uncompromising objects. And yet a whisper of memories still echoes through. This small, wooden cart, standing in for many others like it was filled with only the bare minimum when, in the course of just a few hours, hundreds of inhabitants fled their hometown of Ettelbruck in Luxembourg towards hopeful safety during the final months of the Second World War. (2008, p. 242. approx. translation from the original German)\
\
Luxembourg is one of the smallest countries in Europe. Lodged in between France, Belgium and Germany it prides itself on its internationality and its 1000-year-old history. Initially mainly a land of farming, during the early 20th\'a0century the south of the country became increasingly involved in the steel industry. To date, some of Luxembourg\'92s steel has made it as far as the steel structure of the World Trade Center in New York City.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 During the Second World War, Luxembourg was overrun by Hitler and his armies. In May 1940 \'91the Germans incorporated Luxembourg into the Third Reich and its name ceased to exist.\'92 (Lothar 2005) They were subjected to \'91forced Germanization.\'92 (Carter 2021, p. 140) \'91Street names were germanized [
\f1\i sic
\f0\i0 ] [\'85] every \'93French sounding\'94 first name and surname, as well as any trace of \'93French sounding\'94 words, street or shop names were banned or Germanized. Commonly used French sounding words such as \'93Merci\'94, were forbidden.\'92 (Carter 2021, p. 140) Nevertheless, the inhabitants of \'91one of the smallest of those overrun and crushed [by the Nazis], the people of the Grand duchy of Luxembourg have shared the same fierce spirit of resistance which has greeted the German tyrant wherever he has gone.\'92 (1944, p. 279) \'91Luxembourg children [were] forced to undergo Nazi teaching \'96 but at home they [had] their parents to preserve in their minds and souls devotion to their country, its ideals and its Sovereign [
\f1\i sic
\f0\i0 ].\'92 (1943, p. 70) Keeping with that same spirit, in a census \'91organized by the Nazis, 98 percent of the population voted against becoming German citizens, resulting in considerable reprisals against the population,\'92 (Lothar 2005) \'91and the census [was] cancelled.\'92 (General Patton Memorial Museum). Though there was some collaboration, many Luxembourgers resisted, either \'91by helping young Luxembourgers flee in light of the forced enrolment into the Wehrmacht, supplying food, clothes and medicine to those in hiding [or] assisted members of a shot-down US aircrew to evade capture.\'92 (Carter 2021, p. 140) During the late years of the war, one such person and his family often found refuge in the basement of a small family in Ettelbruck during the regular air raid sirens. (G.R.E.G. 2021 approx. translation from the original German). This family offering this relative safety of their basement, were my grandmother and her parents.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 In autumn and winter of 1944, Ettelbruck became the battleground of \'91one of the fiercest and costliest battles of the war,\'92 (Lothar 2005) the Battle of the Bulge. Initially, Luxembourg, including Ettelbruck were liberated by the allies in September 1944. Three months later however, the Nazis launched a surprise attack on their west front, the South of the Netherlands, Belgium and throughout the northern part of Luxembourg in a last attempt to take back control.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Upon their initial retreat in September 1944 the Germans had destroyed most of the bridges around Ettelbruck. Ettelbruck is located at the crossing of several rivers, so the destruction of the bridges made the advance of troops difficult. One such destroyed bridge can be seen in the picture above.\cb1 \
\cb3 Upon the first liberation by the allied forces in September 1944, the Americans began the provisional reconstruction of those bridges. The bridge that was destroyed in the previous picture, is provisionally reconstructed in the next picture. However, in mid-December 1944, as rumors loomed of a German counterattack, the allied forces decided to destroy the bridges anew, slowing down any potential German troops heading south. On the eve before the destruction of the bridge, my grandmother and her parents made the decision to evacuate their hometown. After he had initially forbidden any evacuations, the \'91Major of Civil Affairs\'92 Major Staunton, ordered the evacuation of the residents on the 19th\'a0of December 1944. (2008, p. 242 approx. translation from the original German) That evening, much like the majority of Ettelbruck\'92s population, my family packed the bare necessities into their very small wooden cart. Upon their arrival at the bridge in the pictures however, they were turned around and ordered to return home. The bridge had been prepped with explosives, ready to be destroyed shortly after. They were forbidden to cross. All bridges leading into and out of Ettelbruck were destroyed a second time, though now by the allied forces, the following day, on 20th\'a0December.\cb1 \
\cb3 Having been turned around by the army, my grandmother\'92s family had no choice but to return home amidst the looming threat of another invasion. Later that night, once the evacuation order had been give, the militia patrolled the streets, advising immediate evacuation of all people in the city. (Flies 1970, p. 1978 approx. translation from the original German) A new opportunity of escape presented itself through the very same family that they had sheltered during the air raid sirens. They offered to take my grandmother and her mother to safety in their car which was already packed full of people. 7 people were crammed into the car that night.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 The destruction of the bridges left only two routes out of the city. One lead north, straight to the approaching German army. The other lead south-west via a winding dirt back road. Not tarmacked, not lit, and only a single lane road, this road to the left of the house in the picture, became the only escape route for all Ettelbruck inhabitants. It was tight and packed with other panicked people trying to escape (Flies 1970, p. 1978 approx. translation from the original German). Due to the proximity of the German army, and the rain of grenades and the threat of bombings, the evacuees were forced to keep all car lights off while driving in a convoy of ghostly cars through the night. Via this road they managed to get to safety and found refuge with family further south in the country. My great grandfather managed to find his way out shortly after on his bicycle. \'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Though ultimately, they were not able to escape their city using their own wooden cart, many people did flee using backpacks or their own wooden carts (Flies 1970, p. 1978 approx. translation from the original German). This cart has been in my grandmother\'92s basement for the past 75 years. It is a visual representation of the danger and despair many people must have felt when cramming their life\'92s belongings into them. And yet even still, this cart is more than many other people - then and now - are able to use when escaping wartime situations.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Nowadays, few people make use of such objects in everyday life. They quickly become an object that is stored in a garage, a container for storage itself, submerged under a range of boxes, doing nothing more than provide shelving for things that have slowly become more important - and then yet again, in turn, forgotten. It could be used as a vintage flowerbed in a pretty garden or again as decorative object in someone's home. Its original purpose, a means for carrying items, or a means for escape from war, has been forgotten - or else, supressed?\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Bibliography:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\i \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ettelbruck 100 Joer Stad 1907-2007.
\f0\i0 \'a0edited by Administration Communale de la Ville d'Ettelbruck.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Carter, Steve. 2021.\'a0
\f1\i Occupation Stories 2020
\f0\i0 . 1st ed. Columbus Ohio: Occupation Stories 2020 LLC.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Flies, Joseph. 1970.
\f1\i Ettelbruck: Die Geschichte Einer Landschaft
\f0\i0 . Luxembourg: Imprimerie Saint-Paul S.A.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 "Handwagen Der Familie Dondelinger-Thilges." G.R.E.G. 2021.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Lothar, Corinna. "Battle of the Bulge Dead Are Still Heroes in the Ardennes."\'a0
\f1\i World and I
\f0\i0 , 20, no. 2, Feb. 2005. (accessed April 28 2022). link.gale.com/apps/doc/A130735754/AONE?u=rho_ttda&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=6f49ae8e.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 "Luxembourg"\'a0
\f1\i United Nations Review
\f0\i0 \'a03 (1943): 69-70. (accessed April 28, 2022).\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://heinonline-org.ezproxy01.rhul.ac.uk/HOL/Page?collection=unl&handle=hein.unl/unatiosv0003&id=74&men_tab=srchresults"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://heinonline-org.ezproxy01.rhul.ac.uk/HOL/Page?collection=unl&handle=hein.unl/unatiosv0003&id=74&men_tab=srchresults}}.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 "President Roosevelt on the Liberation of Luxembourg"\'a0
\f1\i United Nations Review
\f0\i0 \'a04 (1944): 279. (accessed April 28, 2022).\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://heinonline-org.ezproxy01.rhul.ac.uk/HOL/Page?collection=unl&handle=hein.unl/unatiosv0004&id=278&men_tab=srchresults"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://heinonline-org.ezproxy01.rhul.ac.uk/HOL/Page?collection=unl&handle=hein.unl/unatiosv0004&id=278&men_tab=srchresults}}.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Luxembourg: General Patton Memorial Museum, 2022.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cathy Dondelinger\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 17th - 20th December 1944\cb1 \
\cb3 \
}