{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Kodachrome Color Slide\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 The photographic slide is part of an obsolescent epoch of 20th century imaging technology. It is a small, 2x2\'94 cardboard or plastic square with a 1x1.5\'94 window, the perfect size for a single 35mm frame. Prized by photographers for its resolution, longevity, and potential economy, the slide is known as a diapositive,\'a0
\f1\i dia-
\f0\i0 \'a0from ancient Greek meaning \'93through, across, by, over,\'94 and\'a0
\f1\i positive
\f0\i0 \'a0from the Latin\'a0
\f1\i positivus
\f0\i0 \'a0or \'93to place.\'94[1] Rather than a photographic negative, slide film is a positive, true to the original in light, shade and color, allowing anyone with a projector to view their image without expensive printing or extensive processing. The term \'93slideshow\'94 is still used today in a digital sense, but its origins exist within these cardboard celluloid squares, put on display by consumers to friends, families, businesses and institutions\'97anyone with a sequence to share. Kodak Kodachrome photographic slides are an iconic member of film history and a distinct turning point in the field\'92s color-processing chemical development. Striking, however, is that the inspiration for its iconic color technology is rooted in war and its spectacular mythologies.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \cb3 Our Navy
\f0\i0 \'a0was released in 1918 as a \'93recruitment and promotion film depicting the U.S. Navy at the height of World War I.\'94[2] At the time it was described as \'93the most complete series of pictures of our navy that (had) yet been presented to the public, and also the most attractive for the reason that they (were) projected in\'a0
\f1\i natural colors
\f0\i0 \'85\'94 [3] Drawn by these promises of spectacular technological innovation, the teenage friends Leopold Godowski Jr., an aspiring violinist, and Leopold Mannes, also a talented musician, were unimpressed by a drab experience the film had delivered. While gaining success as musicians\'97Godowski Jr. studied violin at UCLA, later joining the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra and Mannes studied piano at Harvard earning a Pulitzer Music Scholarship and Guggenheim Fellowship\'97the two remained in contact as part-time chemists and photo hobbyists committed to improving the vivid color\'a0
\f1\i Our Navy
\f0\i0 \'a0had failed to produce.\'a0 \'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\cb3 What followed was a mythical American dream of entrepreneurial success. In 1922, while traveling to Europe for a performance, Mannes befriended a senior partner at the Wall Street investment banking firm Kuhn, Loeb and Co. [4]. Kuhn Loeb gained their prominence by financing the expanding railways of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. This included a banking alliance with National City Bank in 1882 [5], as well as companies like Western Union and Westinghouse. I recall Peter James Hudson\'92s \'93The National City Bank of New York and Haiti, 1909-1922\'94 and recognize the infinitely complex network of financial mergers, acquisitions and handshakes that would ultimately dictate countless social implications. With the passing of money, power and time, I question how many degrees towards complicity? Then recognize its embedded, inescapable nature. A generation after a banking alliance and only ten years after Roger Farnham wrought financial havoc on Haiti, Kuhn Loeb curiously sent one of their junior associates Lewis L. Strauss to meet the young chemists [6].\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 It\'92s worth spending a bit more time with Kuhn Loeb\'92s prized junior associate, Lewis Lichtenstein Strauss. Born in 1896 and raised in Richmond, Virginia, Strauss was the son of Jewish emigrants who worked as shoe jobbers. He excelled in school but was forced to refuse scholarship after contracting typhoid fever, joining the family business instead. In 1917, unable to serve in combat due to a childhood eye injury, Strauss volunteered his time during and after WWI to Herbert Hoover\'97\'93my jewel of a secretary,\'94 Hoover recalled [7]. After the war Strauss was offered a five-figure starting salary at Kuhn Loeb, and with continued financial success, Strauss became full partner by age 32, \'93piling up a fortune.\'94 [8]\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Strauss continued military service in WWII as a \'93deskbound'' naval officer in Washington. Afterwards he was assigned to the brand-new Atomic Energy Commision by Harry Truman. With charisma and persuasion Strauss convinced Truman to start an H-bomb program, directly opposing \'93the scientists of the AEC\'92s General Advisory Committee, chaired by prestigious physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer.\'94 [9] After the successfully controversial H-bomb program\'92s implementation, Strauss resigned and became financial adviser to the Rockefellers. Soon after, in June 1953, he was tapped on the shoulder by President Eisenhower to become chairman of the AEC.\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 In 1924 Strauss\'92 resounding effect on an American history of nuclear weaponry, energy, and policy had yet to happen; he was simply visiting the two young Leo\'92s obsessed with color photography. Strauss believed in what he\'92d witnessed. Godowski Jr. and Mannes were backed by Kuhn Loeb, financially secured to build a dedicated laboratory and acquire additional patents. By 1930 they had the attention of Eastman Kodak in Rochester, New York and were invited to move and take advantage of Kodak\'92s research facilities. By 1935, a revolutionary, marketable subtractive color film, Kodachrome, had been developed for 16mm home movies. One year later it was released for 35mm.\cb1 \
\cb3 It marked the first time that the spectacle of color photography could be mass-produced and marketed to both photo professionals and consumers, \'93triggering a cultural phenomenon by unleashing a flood of high-quality color images.\'94 [10] [11]\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93Reversal Film.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Wikipedia,
\f0\i0 \'a025 Jan 2022.\'a0\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reversal_film"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reversal_film}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93Our Navy.\'94 From\'a0
\f1\i Moving Picture World,
\f0\i0 \'a019 Jan 1918. Synopsis of\'a0
\f1\i Our Navy
\f0\i0 .\'a0
\f1\i IMDb
\f0\i0 ,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0160618/plotsummary?ref_=tt_ov_pl"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0160618/plotsummary?ref_=tt_ov_pl}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93Our Navy (1918).\'94\'a0
\f1\i Letterboxd
\f0\i0 ,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://letterboxd.com/film/our-navy/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://letterboxd.com/film/our-navy/}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93Leopold Mannes, Pianist, Dies; Inventor Headed Music School; Co\'96Developer of Kodachrome Aided Young Musicians\'97Composer and U.S. Adviser.\'94\'a0
\f1\i The New York Times
\f0\i0 , 12 Aug 1964.\'a0
\f1\i The New York Times Archive
\f0\i0 .\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/1964/08/12/archives/leopold-mannes-pianist-dies-inventor-headed-music-school.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.nytimes.com/1964/08/12/archives/leopold-mannes-pianist-dies-inventor-headed-music-school.html}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93National City Bank forges investment bank alliance.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Citi Timeline.
\f0\i0 \'a0
\f1\i Citi
\f0\i0 .\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.citigroup.com/citi/about/timeline/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.citigroup.com/citi/about/timeline/}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Hudson, Peter James. \'93The National City Bank of New York and Haiti, 1909-1922.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Radical History Review
\f0\i0 \'a0Issue 115. MARHO: The Radical Historians\'92 Organization, Inc. 2013.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93The Administration: The Strauss Affair.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Time
\f0\i0 , 15 June 1959.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://content.time.com/time/subscriber/article/0,33009,892639,00.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 http://content.time.com/time/subscriber/article/0,33009,892639,00.html}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	8.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ibid.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	9.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ibid.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	10.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Baguley, Richard. "The Gadget We Miss: Kodachrome Color Slide Film."\'a0
\f1\i Medium
\f0\i0 , 19 Dec 2013.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/people-gadgets/the-gadget-we-miss-kodachrome-color-slide-film-8bd036d4cc5c"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://medium.com/people-gadgets/the-gadget-we-miss-kodachrome-color-slide-film-8bd036d4cc5c}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	11.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 "Leopold Mannes."\'a0
\f1\i National Inventor Hall of Fame. Archive.org
\f0\i0 .\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://web.archive.org/web/20111210165936/http://www.invent.org/hall_of_fame/223.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://web.archive.org/web/20111210165936/http://www.invent.org/hall_of_fame/223.html}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Jessica Flemming\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Early 1930s\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Format:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cardstock, cardboard, plastic, glass, celluloid\cb1 \
}