{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Twilight Struggle: The Cold War, 1945-1989\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 For many of us, the board game is a medium of nostalgia. One might recall childhood memories of quaint and inconsequential\'97if occasionally tense\'97evenings-in with family or rainy-day lunchtime activities in elementary school. Indeed, at a time when it's become something of a cliche to point out that our contemporary culture is dominated by digital media (video games perhaps chief among them), it may come as a surprise that, despite its presumed 'obsolescence,' the board game industry is actually amidst a vibrant renaissance. One early success story of this renewed interest in the board game was\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle: The Cold War, 1945-1989
\f0\i0 \'a0(GMT Games, 2005). Developed by Ananda Gupta and Jason Matthews, the wargame has gradually gained a devoted fan base\'97from 2010 to 2015, it was the top-ranked game in user reviews on Boardgamegeek.com (a popular board game forum), and has, to date, sold over 100,000 copies.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 This success appears to have been imparted by\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 's\'a0then-novel approach to wargaming. A genre notorious for its complexity, wargaming traces its origins in actual military strategy development, and is usually focused on field tactics across a particular theater of battle, and would often take hours just to set up and multiple days of intensive play to complete one match.\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0instead takes the global view\'97two players, representing the USSR and the US, vie for dominance over the world not through victory in simulated conflict with one another, but by strategically playing cards based on historical events, political figures, and technological developments to vie for geopolitical influence across the world. In doing so,\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0greatly simplifies the genre of the wargame, making it significantly more accessible to a general public than its fellow wargames, while also enabling a unique kind of war simulation at the scale of global politics.\cb1 \
\cb3 The version of Cold War history in\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0is clearly and intentionally molded by the ideological worldview of militaristic paranoia that pervaded US political culture of the time. As the designers noted in the rulebook, "The game has a very definite point of view\'85 [and] basically accepts all of the internal logic of the Cold War as true\'97even those parts of it that are demonstrably false."\'a0This is reflected in the cards' content, where stereotypes and binary assumptions abound\'97playing the "Liberation Theology" card awards the USSR player three influence points to distribute across Central American countries, while the "Decolonization" card grants them one influence point in four African and/or South East Asian states, and all the while, the threat of a thermonuclear apocalypse hangs in the air.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 As Thomas Ambrosio and Jonathan Ross write in their recent analysis of the game,\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0advances imperialist narratives of the Cold War\'97"Although technically not colonies, non-superpower States are, in essence, comparable as they are merely resources to be acquired or lost, and have only instrumental value for and are subordinated to player interests."\'a0The materiality of\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0is also of note\'97its luck-of-the-draw, card-and-dice-based mechanics cannot help but draw comparisons to gambling, recalling the War Room table in Stanley Kubrick's\'a0
\f1\i Dr. Strangelove: Or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb
\f0\i0 \'a0(1964), which, despite the film's black-and-white stock, was famously topped with casino green felt.\'a0All told, the experience of\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0is designed less around creating a holistic account of the Cold War's complex history than it is reproducing and domesticating an enthralling theater of suspicion that was the "intuitive science"\'97as Sharon Ghamari-Tabrizi describes it\'97of Cold War geopolitics.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 What, then, takes place when this dark enthrallment with "thinking about the unthinkable"\'a0is popularized and brought into the domestic sphere by a game like\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 ? Despite the designers' self-aware acknowledgement of the game\'92s fictionality, the game retains an underlying ideology that global warfare is something that\'a0
\f1\i can
\f0\i0 \'a0be played,\'a0
\f1\i can\'a0
\f0\i0 be managed,\'a0
\f1\i can
\f0\i0 \'a0be won, even in the face of nuclear annihilation. But this global perspective of management abstracts the violence of global warfare to a set of cards to be held, concealed, and played, eliminating the agency of soldiers and civilians around the world and reducing their subjecthood to unseen instruments of ludic necropolitics in what Mahshid Mayar calls "heedless feasts of indifference."\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Simultaneously,\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0embeds the players in a binary duel of escalating suspicions\'97a phenomenon as prevalent in today's geopolitical reality as it was in 1950. The game designers' account of their own thought processes while playing the game illustrate this paranoia: "Areas become important just because your opponent thinks they are important\'97he must be going there for some reason!"\'a0As Alexander R. Galloway writes, when playing such simulations of global conflict, in his case Sid Meier's video game series\'a0
\f1\i Civilization
\f0\i0 \'a0(on which Gupta was also a designer), "The gamer is\'85 learning, internalizing, and becoming intimate with a massive, multipart, global algorithm."\'a0That is to say,\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0does not merely portray a paranoid narrative of a binary Cold War superpowers, but in fact inculcates a subjectivity in which one enacts and embodies that paranoia.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 It is then especially alarming to learn that\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0has played a role in bringing wargaming back into realpolitik. The RAND Corporation recently released its first commercially available wargame,\'a0
\f1\i Hedgemony: A Game of Strategic Choices
\f0\i0 \'a0(The RAND Corporation, 2020), which is derived from a wargame they developed as a policy tool with the Department of Defense to design the 2018 US National Defense Strategy. The authors of\'a0
\f1\i Hedgemony
\f0\i0 \'a0reference GMT Games' work as an inspiration, and specifically call out\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'a0as one of these sources.\'a0Played out through a set of cards and dice rolls, the game's system is remarkably similar to\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 , where players compete to attain geopolitical influence to meet strategic goals rather than necessarily or exclusively engage in open warfare. One card makes premonitory reference to the recent Russian invasion of Ukraine, which plays out a scenario in which Russia invades a non-NATO European neighbor, and the 2018 Defense Strategy's requisition of increased military spending in Eastern Europe reflected that prediction, which Russia in turn claimed as an escalation of conflict\'97and we have seen its horrific consequences unfold in the last days. Without denying the Russian state's own responsibility and imperialist aggression, one must also wonder, at what point do\'a0
\f1\i Hedgemony
\f0\i0 \'a0and\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 \'92s worldview of suspicion become self-fulfilling prophecy, especially as the RAND Corporation itself invites laypeople to join in the ludic pleasure of global conflict?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Indeed, the military continues to find\'a0
\f1\i Hedgemony
\f0\i0 \'a0useful\'97it is now employed as a pedagogical tool for war colleges as well, training the gaze of future military and state officials in the ideology of suspicion necessary for the ongoing game of world-making. In his article reviewing its use in his own courses at the Marine Corps War College, Colonel Brian W. Cole includes a telling account of the experience of one student-player: "'I felt like everyone was out to get us, all the time, from every angle,' claimed one of the students who represented the United States. It is an accurate statement because life as a hegemon is fraught with endless competition."\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\
\cb3 Bibliography:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ambrosio, Thomas, and Jonathan Ross. "Performing the Cold War through the 'The Best Board Game on the Planet,': The Ludic Geopolitics of\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle
\f0\i0 .\'a0
\f1\i Geopolitics
\f0\i0 , online (July 2021): 1-33.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Belleto, Steven. "The Game Theory Narrative and the Myth of the National Security State."\'a0
\f1\i American Quarterly
\f0\i0 \'a061, no. 2 (June 2009): 333-357.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Cole, Col. Brian W., USMC. "
\f1\i Hedgemony
\f0\i0 : A Wargame to Evaluate Senior Joint Professional Military Education Learning Objectives."\'a0
\f1\i Journal of Advanced Military Studies
\f0\i0 \'a012, no. 2 (2021): 154-166.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Galloway, Alexander R.\'a0
\f1\i Gaming: Essays on Algorithmic Culture
\f0\i0 . Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press, 2006.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ghamari-Tabrizi, Sharon.\'a0
\f1\i The Worlds of Herman Kahn: The Intuitive Science of Thermonuclear War
\f0\i0 . Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2005.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Harrington, Pat, and Matthew G. Kirschenbaum, eds.\'a0
\f1\i Zones of Control
\f0\i0 . Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press, 2016.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Macdonald, Fraser. "Space and the Atom: On the Popular Geopolitics of Cold War Rocketry."\'a0
\f1\i Geopolitics
\f0\i0 \'a013, no. 4 (December 2008): 611-634.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Matthews, Jason, and Ananda Gupta.\'a0
\f1\i Twilight Struggle: The Cold War, 1945-1989\'97Rule Book
\f0\i0 . Hanford, CA: GMT Games, LLC, 2016.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Mayar, Mahshid. "Feasts of Indifference: Racialization, Affect, and Necropolitics in 1X War Games."\'a0
\f1\i European Journal of American Studies
\f0\i0 \'a016, no. 3 (2021): online.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Linick, Michael E., John Yurchak, Michael Spirtas, Stephen Dalzell, Yuna Huh Wong, and Yvonne K. Crane.\'a0
\f1\i Hedgemony: A Game of Strategic Choices\'97Player Guide
\f0\i0 . Santa Monica, CA: The RAND Corporation, 2020.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 \
Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Jason Matthews and Ananda Gupta\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Publisher:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 GMT Games\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 2005-Present\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Contributor:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Alex Whee Kim\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Format:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Board Game, 22"x34" board, 110 cards, 2 dice, counter chits, rule book, and storage box\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Type:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Board Game\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Collection:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mundanemilitarisms.com/collections/show/1"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 Category 1: Lorem Ipsum}}\cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \ulnone \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Jason Matthews and Ananda Gupta, \'93Twilight Struggle: The Cold War, 1945-1989,\'94\'a0
\f1\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/10.\cb1 \
}