{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Chinese "Scarecrow"\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 \'93Each day the Shanghainese gov\'92t reaches a new low; barricading roads, stapling metal sheets onto our doors, locking the main entrances of buildings. Ignoring fire hazards and medical risks\'97even breaking fire safety laws! Of course, some [of them] just set up these \'91scarecrows\'92; who wouldn\'92t be terrified, seeing this white thing at night?\'94\
\cb1 \
\cb3 These are words that Weibo user, Shixingchennianhua, posted midway through the month-long, lockdown enforced by Shanghai\'92s municipal government on its residents, in an effort to expunge the highly contagious Omicron variant. Food shortages, overtaxed hospitals, and family separations resulted, prompting public outrage\'97the belated, but furious realization that the cure, and not the sickness, is killing people.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 The \'93scarecrow\'94 mentioned here is an effigy of a Chinese public health volunteer\'97the CCP\'92s biopolitical enforcer, a 21st-century, white-clad descendent of the ubiquitous Red Guard. Stuck to its chest is a piece of A4 paper, printed with the Chinese text, \'93This building has implemented social isolation measures/ those who violate the rules by exiting must bear the consequences.\'94\
\cb1 \
\cb3 I have found little on the history of scarecrows in China (though Japan seems to have records dating back to 700 CE). In Europe, the first scarecrows were likely \'93person[s] employed in scaring birds\'94 (
\f1\i OED
\f0\i0 ), but after the population die-off during the 14th century bubonic plague, such hired, human help\'97often children\'97was replaced by inanimate human likenesses.\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 But if, as the\'a0
\f1\i Encyclopedia Britannica
\f0\i0 \'a0says with accidental lyricism (iambs, even), \'93its name derives from use against the crow,\'94 then what to call a scarecrow meant for humans? \'93Scarecrows outfitted in clothes previously worn by a hunter who has fired on the flock,\'94 the entry continues, \'93is regarded by some as especially efficacious,\'94 enabling various analogies\'97from folksy to poli-sci: a cat burned by a hot stove afraid of cold stoves, politics war by other means, no hegemony without domination, and so on.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 But though this \'93frightening, white thing\'94 is an icon for the faceless, government delegates who carry out the state\'92s hygienic domination, its material construction tells a different story. Its hazmat suit is ill-fitting, draped over a T-shaped metal frame, then stretched to accommodate a boxy torso, like a thin person who has swallowed a first-aid kit. Its legs are bent forward at an impossible angle, then trussed like a turkey, suggesting an almost comical helplessness; its arms, surely intended to forbid approaching residents, also appear to be outflung in exaggerated embrace; its eyes, two nails, look sleepy, not menacing. This scarecrow was built with an amateur\'92s carelessness, or even desperation\'97one is reminded of stories of some volunteers, fainting from overwork, propped up by the patients they are supposed to be attending to. Such idiosyncrasies force viewers to \'93look at,\'94 not merely to \'93see\'94 (viz., to take for granted), the state\'92s authority in all its frailty and contingency, in the same way a counterfeit bill, once detected, forces us to consider the invisible hands that made it (Mwangi 31). Though it\'a0
\f1\i ought
\f0\i0 \'a0to serve as metonym of bureaucratic capitalism and panoptic control, this scarecrow hints, dialectically, at the ways that the system fails forward, borne on the fumbling fingers of its acolytes.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 This object also speaks to the ways that evidentiary standards change transnationally. Shixing\'92s post was deleted, alongside its author\'92s Weibo account, long before I started to write this object story. Comments to posts like these are all rueful variations of, \'93Read this while you still can\'97it\'92ll be gone in no time.\'94 The photos that I have attach are screenshots, pulled from Twitter. In a significant way, they document, not just the hazmatted scarecrow, but the act of documentation itself, its attendant discontents. Chinese netizens are familiar with two forms of ephemerality: the first, a sense that the average lifespan of a meme is so short as to deny viewers a chance for even a proper\'a0
\f1\i first look
\f0\i0 , let alone a doubletake\'97what Ackbar Abbas calls\'a0
\f1\i d\'e9j\'e0 disaparu
\f0\i0 ; and the second, a near-constant threat to the \'93conditions that allow a speech act\'97be it truth-telling, oath-making, or command-giving\uc0\u8202 \'97\u8202 to mean anything,\'94 in Nan Z. Da\'92s formulation.\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 By highlighting the illiberal nature of Chinese governmentality, I do not mean to valorize liberal-bourgeois nation-states. It is true that what Rey Chow calls the global visual economy, posts like Shixing\'92s become hot commodities among American neocons who sponsor\'a0
\f1\i Economist\'a0
\f0\i0 articles calling for regime change in China. This does not, however, vitiate local activists\'92 efforts to preserve, at all costs, evidence of government misdeeds. To subsume local struggles into transnational circuits of exchange amounts, in Nan Z. Da\'92s words, to \'93the subsumption of the finer points of Chinese diasporic identities into Asian American and identity politics narratives.\'94\
\cb1 \
\cb3 I am all too aware, as well, that yearning for conditions under which one might \'93cite properly\'94 partakes of a certain \'93regime of rigor,\'94 which bars horizontal knowledge-sharing with vertical paywalls, and privatize the public domain. I merely want to point out that a Foucauldian suspicion of archives becomes less tenable when there are no archives to be suspicious of; that exposing hierarchies congealed and concealed by \'93best practices\'94 is difficult when the institutions we want to critique might literally be dismantled overnight. \'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Fully stocked grocery stores, revealed to be Potemkin villages; non-compliant elders, brutalized by security guards; low-ranking government delegates, sobbing to their constituents\'97before such images were taken up by the Western press, they were shared, spontaneously, by Shanghainese protestors. Is it any wonder why the latter might yearn to secure, by means of the former, an archival solidity for the images that have been transformed into bureaucratic capitalist ephemera before their very eyes?\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Works Cited:\cb1 \
\cb3 Abbas, Ackbar. \'93The New Hong Kong Cinema and the \'91D\'e9j\'e0 Disparu.\'92\'94\'a0
\f1\i Discourse
\f0\i0 \'a016, no. 3 (Spring 1994): 65-77.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Da, Nan Z. \'93Disambiguation: A Tragedy.\'94\'a0
\f1\i nplusone
\f0\i0 , November, 2020.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \cb3 Encyclopedia Brittanica
\f0\i0 . S.v. \'93Scarecrow.\'94 Chicago: Encyclopedia Britannica, 2009 (accessed May 3, 2022). http://www.britannica.com/topic/scarecrow-agriculture.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\cb3 Mu\'f1oz, Jos\'e9 Esteban. \'93Ephemera as Evidence: Introductory Notes to Queer Acts.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Women and Performance: a journal of feminist theory
\f0\i0 \'a08, no. 3 (June 2008): 5-16.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Mwangi, Mambui. \'93The Lion, the Native and the Coffee Plant: Political Imagery and the Ambiguous Art of Currency Design in Colonial Kenya.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Geopolitics
\f0\i0 \'a07, no. 1 (Fall, 2010): 31-62.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \cb3 Oxford English Dictionary
\f0\i0 , 3d ed. S.v. \'93Scarecrow.\'94 London: Oxford University Press, 1989 (accessed May 3, 2022).\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\cb3 Rotenbark, Lori. \'93Hey, Man: The Curious Life and Times of Scarecrows.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Modern Farmer
\f0\i0 , May 28, 2014. https://modernfarmer.com/2014/05/scarecrow-history-effigy/\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Henry Zhang\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 April 22, 2022\cb1 \
\cb3 \
}