{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Gas mask\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 I came across this photo of high school boys \'93repairing\'94 gas masks in an official World War II history of the Chemical Warfare Service. These masks are among the 478,000 received by the Service\'92s Hawaiian Department after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. Although the exact repairs are unspecified, it\'92s possible that they involved \'93reconditioning\'94 the masks \'93to fit oriental faces and the faces of children.\'94 After the U.S. government declared martial law in Hawai\uc0\u8219 i in 1941, many schools were requisitioned for military use, and in 1942, superintendent Oren Long revised child labor laws so that minors could volunteer their labor for the war cause when supervised by teachers. I don\'92t know how common it was for young boys to repair gas masks (does it matter that they\'92re Asian? Japanese?), since the task was usually delegated to homemaking courses. A 1946 Board of Education report notes that \'93young girls\'94 had made 10,000 \'93bunny masks.\'94 Bunny masks\'97gas hoods with ears attached\'97were given to children under five across the territory. (For reasons I\'92ve yet to uncover, bunny masks were also shipped to patients exiled on the leper colony of Moloka\'92i.)\cb1 \
\
\cb3 If World War I introduced poison gases to the battlefields of Europe, World War II brought the specter of gas warfare into civilian life. This atmospheric mode of attack that eludes visual detection made \'93war\'94 an ever-present possibility. In an environment of heightened preparedness, the gas mask, once a military protective equipment, became an everyday accessory; every civilian, in turn, became a potential combatant. But while gas masks were widely distributed in Britain, France, Germany and Italy, the United States issued civilian gas masks only in Hawai\uc0\u8219 i during the years of martial law. The military government tasked Hawaiian civilians with building a bomb shelter in their backyard, exchanging their currency for special bank notes, and receiving shots to protect against bacteriological warfare. Mail was censored, foreign language newspapers were banned, and\'a0
\f1\i habeas corpus\'a0
\f0\i0 was suspended
\f1\i .\'a0
\f0\i0 Gas masks seem especially prominent in accounts of this period, perhaps because habituating oneself to an uncomfortable personal defensive device encapsulates the broader experience of habituating the body to wartime. As a constant reminder of imminent attack, gas masks were to be carried at all times. To have forgotten one\'92s gas mask during an air raid drill, as Yoshiharu Ogata tells it, was shameful and unpatriotic. Children, and specifically students, may have been the most tractable wartime subjects since schools were a controlled site for bomb drills and gas tests. Yet children\'92s feelings about gas masks were more diffuse and were often unassimilable to the expectations of wartime patriotism. Dorinda Makana\uc0\u333 nalani Nicholson recalls feeling relief when, during an air raid drill, an accumulation of rain water prevented her class from going side a dark, dank trench with their gas masks on. Judy Rhoades and her friends would giggle after donning their masks\'97\'93We thought we looked like alien anteaters\'94\'97only to have their teacher chide them to take the drills seriously. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 I\'92m not the first to suspect a special affinity between gas masks and children. In surveying British narratives of WWII childhood, Gabriel Moshenka proposes that the child draws out the\'a0
\f1\i aesthetic\'a0
\f0\i0 dimensions of a gas mask. In contrast to the many discussions of the gas mask\'92s excruciating suppression of sight, speech, hearing, and breathing, Moshenka frames this rearrangement of sense perception as an
\f1\i \'a0
\f0\i0 aesthetic experience that holds special affective power within the realm of childhood memories. Comparing the gas mask to Proust\'92s madeleine, Moshenka suggests that this mnemonic device was so powerful that it didn\'92t simply conjure a repressed past but reproduced an entire sensory experience. The gas mask\'92s aesthetic quality also lies in its status as an \'93artefact, art object, or thing observed.\'94 While all gas masks are \'93sinister\'94 and \'93uncanny,\'94 Moshenka proposes that they are especially so when appearing in the same visual field as a child. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 If we are to care about the aesthetics of gas masks, it is because aesthetics dramatize the biopolitical organization of life\'97the making live and letting die\'97when air is a limited resource. Artist-activist Sue Coe has employed the gas mask in multiple dystopian contexts, often also involving children. In some instances, the gas mask signals the wearer\'92s vulnerability, in the case of a masked mother breastfeeding her baby amidst toxic chemicals (image 2). In others, the gas mask separates the haves from the have-nots. In image 3, the hulking masked figures that can access filtered air literally inhabit a different atmosphere than the tiny bird that cannot. Coe\'92s visualization of \'93air conditioning\'94 as a form of \'93social conditioning\'94 demonstrates how gas masks function as a kind of climatic media. Yuriko Furuhata uses this term climatic media to describe technologies of \'93atmospheric control,\'94 ways of using the  \'93physicochemical composition of the air\'94 to \'93affect the behavior or \'91conduct\'92 of people and things.\'94 As climatic media, gas masks not only mark the\'a0limit point of an inhabitable environment, but they also differentiate between those who are entitled to breathe from those who are not worthy of clean air. Coe\'92s artwork shows that the child in a gas mask can symbolize both vulnerability\'a0
\f1\i and\'a0
\f0\i0 inequality. We might think here of how children in gas masks became\'a0a common visual trope in depictions of environmental crisis in the 1960s and 1970s. Although the environmental movement of this era often included critiques of U.S. nuclear testing and the U.S. war in Southeast Asia, both of which had the most pronounced effects on people of color, the figure of the child in a gas mask was largely used to signal a threat to\'a0
\f1\i white\'a0
\f0\i0 innocence and\'a0
\f1\i white
\f0\i0 \'a0futurity. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 I\'92ve been pondering what it means to encounter gas masks in relation to non-white children. What are the aesthetics and politics of gas masks in a white-minority territory, one where the racial demographics contributed to both visions of racial liberalism and concerns about imperial security? The issuance of gas masks in Hawai\uc0\u8219 i was one of several efforts undertaken by the military government to respond to elevated risks in the aftermath of the Pearl Harbor bombing. Unlike in Europe, though, the risks that prompted the declaration of martial law arose from within. In fact, in Judge Advocate General Thomas H. Green\'92s history of this period, it\'92s interesting to note that anxiety about racial unrest within the territory overshadows concerns about enemy attacks from elsewhere. The rationale for martial law, according to Green, was that \'93the police were few in number and that some of them were of Japanese extraction, that the Filipinos and Chinese might turn on the Japanese and that the consequent slaughter would be terrible, that the local Japanese might go over to the enemy, and that in any of these events the local police would be virtually helpless and that thousands of innocent people might be injured or killed.\'94 Native Hawaiians play a smaller role in Green\'92s history, but he nonetheless notes that because \'93Hawaiians are superstitious people,\'94 their rumors would \'93whip up tremendous animosity toward the Japanese,\'94 such that \'93unless we did something to head it off immediately, it might lead to the wholesale slaughter of the local Japanese.\'94 In short, martial law\'97a mode of governmentality that Americans often associate with Third World dictatorships\'97was intended to keep the peace, the core threat to which was the emotional heat of the lesser races. One can discern a similar logic in the first occasion for martial law in Hawai\u8219 i in 1895, when the U.S. government, in an illegal takeover of a sovereign kingdom, suppressed Native Hawaiian attempts to restore the monarchy. In both 1895 and 1941, keeping the peace\'97a distinctively American phraseology\'97meant using the pretense of paternalism to justify the violation of civil rights and to uphold the priority of white life. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 The racial ideologies that informed the U.S. military government\'92s calculations of risk and pursuit of security also shaped public education and public discourse about gas masks in Hawai\uc0\u8219 i. The condescending attitude that lecturers took toward their audience casts that the islands\'92 darker skinned residents as children all. But children are no unwitting dupes. And if all children possess an enhanced sensory capacity, as Moshenka posits, then one might surmise that children who must navigate racism and colonialism in their daily lives are especially adept at turning this sensory awareness into a kind of social intuition, if not into a political consciousness. If this is the case, then the fact that most children refused to wear the U.S. administration\'92s bunny masks evidences not their childishness but their social discernment. The fourth image is my favorite of the gas mask photos I\'92ve encountered, for the range of expressions on the faces the women and children shows how extraordinary and strange it must have been to experience the live possibility of a Japanese takeover and the lived reality of American martial law. I\'92m especially drawn to the unobliging girl in the back, who seems unswayed by gas masks dressed up with decorative ears. Her look of disdain may not reflect an overt political stance. But it surely it suggests misgivings about accepting the protection of the U.S. military. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 Bibliography:\cb1 \
\cb3 Beyer, Carl Kalani. \'93Martial Law\'92s Impact on Education in the Territory of Hawai\uc0\u8219 i during WWII: Instilling Patriotism to the U.S. and Service to the Plantation Economy of Hawai\u8219 i.\'94\'a0
\f1\i American Educational History Journal
\f0\i0 \'a046, no. 2: 55\'9671. \cb1 \
\
\cb3 Dunaway, Finis.\'a0
\f1\i Seeing Green: The Use and Abuse of American Environmental Images
\f0\i0 . Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2015.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Furuhata. Yuriko.\'a0
\f1\i Climatic Media: Transpacific Experiments in Atmospheric Control
\f0\i0 . Durham: Duke University Press, 2022.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Green, Thomas H.\'a0
\f1\i Martial Law in Hawaii, December 7, 1941\'96April 4, 1943
\f0\i0 \'a0. Unpublished manuscript. Library of Congress. http://www.loc.gov/rr/frd/Military_Law/Martial-Law-Hawaii_Green.html.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Kleber, Brooks and Dale Birdsell.\'a0
\f1\i The Chemical Warfare Service: Chemicals in Combat
\f0\i0 . Washington, DC: Office of the Chief of Military History United States Army, 1966.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Moshenska, Gabriel. \'93Gas Masks: Material Culture, Memory, and the Senses.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute
\f0\i0 \'a016, no.3 (August 2010): 609-28.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Nicholson, Dorinda Makana\uc0\u333 nalani.\'a0
\f1\i Remember World War II Kids Who Survived Tell Their Stories
\f0\i0 . Washington, DC: National Geographic, 2005.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Nicholson, Dorinda.\'a0
\f1\i Pearl Harbor Child
\f0\i0 . Kansas City, MO: Lowell Press, 1993.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Walters, Melody M. Miyamoto.\'a0
\f1\i In Love and War: The World War II Courtship Letters of a Nisei Couple
\f0\i0 . Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 2015.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 \
Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 \'93Gas mask,\'94\'a0
\f1\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/8.\cb1 \
}