{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19180\viewh12440\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Letter from Franklin D. Roosevelt\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Subject:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Military letter\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 It is a strange, old looking, odd sized letter, without a date or much other definitive information, signed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The letter is clouded in uncertainty. It was discovered upon the refurbishment of a house in New Hampshire, then put away and re-discovered years later, this, already, an indication of its ungraspable nature. What is the background behind the letter? What was its purpose? There are two entirely separate and entirely unrelated possible explanations.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 On the one hand, The National WWII Museum archive have dated the letter as 22 October 1944 and associated it with \'91The Bernard J, Mertzweiler, Jr. Collection 2012.\'92 Their letter, (see above) is the exact same letter as the one I found, with the only exception of a date that was written, by hand, onto the top left of the letter. This date, \'91Oct. 22, 1944\'92 as well as Roosevelt\'92s signature are the only hand written elements of the letter which is otherwise entirely typed. The inclusion of the letter in the \'91The Bernard J. Mertzweiller, Jr. Collection 2012,\'92 suggests, that the letter was sent to the \'91559th\'a0Bombardment Squadron (M), 9th\'a0Air Force\'92 (2022) in 1944. Bernard J. Mertzweiler Jr. was one of the members of this Bombardment Squadron. In July 1944, \'91subsequent to the Allied invasion of the continent, the 387th,\'92 which the 559th\'a0Bombardment Squadron was a part of, \'91moved to Stony Cross [\'85] and on to a series of bases in France [\'85] for the mission that resulted in a Distinguished Unit Citation for the Group, awarded for hitting transportation and communication targets at Mayen and Prum, Germany during the Battle of the Bulge, December 1944 to January 1945.\'92 (Smith, 2017)\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 The Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum on the other hand, have associated an entirely different date \'96 and location - with the letter. According to them, it \'91was delivered to every soldier and sailor in the US Expeditionary Force as they were about to storm the beaches of North Africa.\'92 (Sparrow 2017) It was sent out in direct connection with Operation Torch which \'91began on Nov. 8, 1942, with the invasion of Morocco and Algeria.\'92 (Mallouli & Sweeney, 2019)\'a0\'a0Unfortunately, \'91the first phase of air operations in North Africa, in November and December 1942, was characterized by unforeseen problems and obstacles compounded by the inexperience of the units involved.\'92 (Bechthold, 2004) \'91In late December, this led to \'91Eisenhower [bringing] an end to the first stage of operations in North Africa.\'92 (Bechthold, 2004)\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 It is difficult to definitively determine the original time stamp of this letter. However, in the 1940s, Europe was a place that was much more familiar to the US than North Africa. After all, as Mallouli and Sweeney claim, \'91no academic research could be located that examines U.S. print press portrayals of North Africans and Arabs during World War II in general and during Operation Torch in particular.\'92\'a0\'a0(Mallouli & Sweeney, 2019) It could therefore be argued that the \'91distant places\'92 mentioned in the second paragraph of the letter, may more likely refer to North Africa than France and central Europe. Moreover, the address at the front of the envelope seems to suggest, that the addressee was part of medical detachment 6418, not a bombardment group within the air force.\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 The letter itself is a letter of encouragement and praise to \'91the United States Army Expeditionary Forces.\'92 The encouragement is apparent throughout the letter. Interestingly, Roosevelt actually makes the decision to separate himself from the soldiers, drawing a very clear line between the \'91you\'92 of the soldiers, and the \'91we\'92 of those \'91who stay[ed] at home.\'92 There are in fact 13 occurrences of \'91you\'92 or \'91your,\'92 as opposed to the single occurrence of \'91we,\'92 suggesting that he is putting the focus entirely on the soldiers and almost minimises the role of himself as the president. His position as president is, in fact, not mentioned until the very last word of the letter. In a sentence that is entirely focused on the soldiers, who \'91bear with [them ...] hope, [\'85] confidence, [\'85] gratitude and [\'85] prayers,\'92 of their families and citizens, Roosevelt chooses the last word, almost as an extension of his own signature, \'91your president.\'92 He is including himself in the dept owed to the soldiers but only makes mention of himself as their president in the two last paragraphs. The soldiers are responsible for \'91the freedom of the lives of those you love - your fellow-citizens \'96 your people.\'92 These people are a \'91god-fearing, proud, courageous,\'92 people, putting their \'91freedom under God before all other purposes.\'92 In the second to last paragraph, importantly, he acknowledges that he himself, included in the 'we,\'92 owes his 'duties [\'85] in many ways to [the soldiers].\'92 This suggests that he shares the respect and gratitude of the soldiers\'92 loved ones.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 This respect to the soldiers is also reflected in the fact that the name and address of the envelope are hand written. It is difficult to decipher, but the letter seems to be addressed to one Private James D. Remilton. Though I was not able to find any more information on this person himself, the uncertainty regarding the recipient of the letter, as well as the different times and locations associated with the letter only make it more of a fascinating military object.\cb1 \
\cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Bibliography:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Sparrow, Paul,\'a0
\f1\i A Veterans Day to Remember: 11/11/42
\f0\i0 (8 November 2017) <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fdr.blogs.archives.gov/2017/11/08/a-veterans-day-to-remember-11-11-42/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://fdr.blogs.archives.gov/2017/11/08/a-veterans-day-to-remember-11-11-42/}}> [accessed 26 February 2022]\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\i \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Letter Franklin D. Roosevelt Operation Torch. Letter given to an American soldier before landing in North Africa
\f0\i0 (2018) <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.usmilitariacollection.com/boutique/lettre-franklin-d-roosevelt-operation-torch/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.usmilitariacollection.com/boutique/lettre-franklin-d-roosevelt-operation-torch/}}> [accessed 25 February 2022]\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Mallouli, Sofiene & Michael S. Sweeney, 'The Framing of North Africans by U.S. Print Media during Operation Torch in World War II',\'a0
\f1\i Journalism History
\f0\i0 , 45.1, (2019), 61-76 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1080/00947679.2019.1574179"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://doi.org/10.1080/00947679.2019.1574179}}> [accessed 25 February 2022]\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Bechthold, Michael, 'A Question of Success: Tactical Air Doctrine and Practice in North Africa, 1942-43 ',\'a0
\f1\i The Journal of Military History
\f0\i0 , 68.3, (2004), 821-851\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1353/jmh.2004.0084"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://doi.org/10.1353/jmh.2004.0084}}\'a0[accessed 24 February 2022]\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\i \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Letter from Franklin D. Roosevelt to members of the United States Army Expeditionary Forces
\f0\i0 (2022) <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americainworldwartwo.amdigital.co.uk.yale.idm.oclc.org/Documents/Details/2012_306_AM_014"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 http://www.americainworldwartwo.amdigital.co.uk.yale.idm.oclc.org/Documents/Details/2012_306_AM_014}}> [accessed 25 February 2022]\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Smith, Mike,\'a0
\f1\i Edit entry 387th Bomb Group
\f0\i0 (2017) <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.americanairmuseum.com/unit/331"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.americanairmuseum.com/unit/331}}> [accessed 26 February 2022]\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cathy Dondelinger\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 1940s\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Contributor:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cathy Dondelinger\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Format:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Images\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Language:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 English\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Type:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Military document\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Collection:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mundanemilitarisms.com/collections/show/1"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 Category 1: Lorem Ipsum}}\cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \ulnone \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cathy Dondelinger, \'93Letter from Franklin D. Roosevelt,\'94\'a0
\f1\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/9.\cb1 \
}