{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 War Projections and the View-Master\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 There is a specific quality of light to the slide projector. A literal heat from its lamp influences its smell\'97a burning of dust and warming of plastic, wafted by the gentle hum of its fan. Slide projectors illuminate film\'92s granular materiality; their resolution is distinct and visceral. Unlike the digitally simulated RGB pixel amalgamations we experience today, slides and their projectors consist of the light of a single bulb, true shadow, and a translucent image, perhaps closer to the physical hand that pressed the camera\'92s shutter\'97to the gaze that saw the object of its attention.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 The sound of the Kodak Carousel projector in action is at once nostalgic and mechanically ominous. Amplification of its revolution easily mimics the cartridge of a weapon and the whir of an engine. I\'92d assumed my research into the projector would quickly, militaristically make itself known. Instead its engineering history proved obtusely opaque. Most articles reference the same\'a0
\f1\i Mad Men\'a0
\f0\i0 episode where Don Draper tugs at the heartstrings of fictional Kodak executives, premising the projector\'92s sentimental, affective potential. A carousel of images; a physical, temporal and metaphorical loop of memories [1]. Though it originated in the 1930s, the consumer slide projector only gained popularity in the 50s. The iconic carousel\'92s original design came from an Italian-American inventor, Louis Misuraca [2]. Kodak paid him a lump sum for his invention which he used for a one-time trip to Italy with his family. They \'93finessed his design\'94 and released the Kodak Carousel in spring of 1962. [3]\cb1 \
\cb3 Aware of its affective potential but curious towards its pragmatic utility, \'93
\f1\i slide projectors at war
\f0\i0 \'94 replaced my initial search. I found an auction for the brutal filmstrip projector pictured above; listed as \'93KOREAN WAR US ARMY SIGNAL CORPS PH-222-C PROJECTOR.\'94 It introduced me to the Signals Corps: \'93a branch of the US Army that creates and manages communications and information systems for the command and control of combined arms forces.\'94[4] The Corps was first established in 1860 during the Civil War and has since created several laboratories whose engineers have pioneered technologies such as artificially grown quartz crystals and early circuit board printing. Some of its most famous employees included Stan Lee, the comic book writer, as well as Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, the infamous scientists dismissed and tried for Soviet espionage during the McCarthy-era Cold War.\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Dr. Haidee Wasson, Professor of Film and Media at Concordia University details the Signal Corps and US War Department\'92s symbiotic relationship with Hollywood in her book\'a0
\f1\i Everyday Movies: Portable Film Projectors and the Transformation of American Culture
\f0\i0 \'a0as well as\'a0
\f1\i Cinema\'92s Military Industrial Complex
\f0\i0 . Wasson argues that through a technological evolution towards portability, the army \'93boldly dissembled cinema\'92s settled routines and structures, rearticulating film projection as but one integral element of a growing institution with highly complex needs\'94 [5]. Eastman Kodak, Bell and Howell, and Radio Corporation of America (RCA) played a \'93key role in providing a technological infrastructure\'97cameras, film stock, lighting, lenses, projectors\'85\'94 [6] Wasson notes that, \'93during the period 1942-1945, the Signal Corps procured more than 16,000 16mm projectors from several commercial manufacturers\'94 [7] and that \'93by October 1945, Hollywood had delivered 43,189 prints of 1,941 features to the War Department, plus 33,189 prints of 1,050 shorts. The estimated number of showings per day, worldwide, was 3,500, with daily attendance of about 1.5 million.\'94[8]\
\cb1 \
\cb3 A War Department Field Manual published in 1945 details lists and uses of films, film strips and recognition film slides to accompany the former projectors [9]. The \'93recognition slides\'94 were especially intriguing. Silhouettes of enemy and ally air and naval craft were shown to soldiers, training them in identification techniques [10]. With Dr. Wasson\'92s notions of portability in mind, the recognition slides transitioned from squares of glass to smaller, economical 16mm film, then sandwiched between two discs of cardstock. This familiar paper disc, the View-Master reel, may elicit memories of tourist traps and Disneyland in those old enough to remember. Modeled after the stereoscope, it was first introduced at the 1939 New York World\'92s Fair and the 1940 Golden Gate Exposition in San Francisco [11]. At the onset of WWII the View-Master almost ceased to exist when scarcity of materials halted its production. A contract with the US military for 100,000 Model B viewers and six million recognition training and range estimation reels saved it from oblivion. [12]\cb1 \
\cb3 The projector\'92s nostalgic sentimentality disintegrates in light of its tactical function and impact on America's cinematic industry. Below are instructions for a projector should it be left behind in enemy territory.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 \'93
\f2\b Smash.
\f0\b0 \'a0Smash the carrying case, housing, lenses, cigarettes, reflectors, mirrors, and projection lamps. Use sledges, axes, hand axes, pick axes, or heavy tools.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 Cut.
\f0\b0 \'a0Cut the power cables and all the inside wiring. Use axes, hand axes, and machetes.\cb1 \

\f2\b \cb3 Bend.
\f0\b0 \'a0Bend all parts.\cb1 \

\f2\b \cb3 Burn.
\f0\b0 \'a0Burn case, technical manuals. Use gasoline, kerosene oil, flame throwers, or incendiary grenades.\cb1 \

\f2\b \cb3 Disposal.
\f0\b0 \'a0Bury or scatter the destroyed parts in trenches, fox holes, or throw them into ravines.\cb1 \

\f2\b \cb3 Destroy.
\f0\b0 \'a0Destroy everything.\'94 [13]\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Wilson, Emma. \'93Technological Object: Carousel Slide Projector.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Literature Technology Media
\f0\i0 , 1 May 2022.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.english.cam.ac.uk/research/ltm/?p=442"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.english.cam.ac.uk/research/ltm/?p=442}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Rawsthorn, Alice. \'93It's a Spaceship! No, It's a Time Machine.\'94\'a0
\f1\i The New York Times
\f0\i0 , 20 Jan 2013. 1 May 2022.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/21/arts/design/its-a-spaceship-no-its-a-time-machine.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/21/arts/design/its-a-spaceship-no-its-a-time-machine.html}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ibid.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93Signal Corps (United States Army).\'94\'a0
\f1\i Wikipedia
\f0\i0 , 3 Mar 2022. 1 May 2022.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_Corps_(United_States_Army)"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_Corps_(United_States_Army)}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Wasson, Haidee. \'93Experimental Viewing Protocols: Film Projection and the American Military.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Cinema\'92s Military Industrial Complex
\f0\i0 , 19 Jan 2018. 1 May 2022.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6.	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1525/9780520965263/html"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1525/9780520965263/html}}\cf2 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	7.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ibid.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	8.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Wasson, Haidee. \'93Protocols of Portability.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Film History
\f0\i0 \'a0Vol. 25, No. 1-2, \'93Inquiries, Speculations, Provocations,\'94 2013. P. 236-247.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2979/filmhistory.25.1-2.236#metadata_info_tab_contents"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2979/filmhistory.25.1-2.236#metadata_info_tab_contents}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	9.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ibid.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	10.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93List of War Department Films, Films Strips, and Recognition Film Slides.\'94\'a0
\f1\i War Department Field Manual
\f0\i0 . United States Government Printing Office, Jan 1945. 1 May 2022.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ibiblio.org/hyperwar/NHC/NewPDFs/USArmy/US%20Army%20Field%20Manuals/USArmy,%20War%20Dept.%20FM%20List%20of%20War%20Dept.%20Films,%20etc.%20FM%2021-7%201945-01.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.ibiblio.org/hyperwar/NHC/NewPDFs/USArmy/US%20Army%20Field%20Manuals/USArmy,%20War%20Dept.%20FM%20List%20of%20War%20Dept.%20Films,%20etc.%20FM%2021-7%201945-01.pdf}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	11.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93Visual Aircraft Recognition,\'94\'a0
\f1\i Field Manual No. 3-01.80
\f0\i0 . Headquarters Department of the Army, Washington DC, 17 Jan 2006. 1 May 2002.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://irp.fas.org/doddir/army/fm3-01-80.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://irp.fas.org/doddir/army/fm3-01-80.pdf}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	12.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Sell, Mary Ann. \'93Focusing on View-Master History and Values.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Antique Trader
\f0\i0 , 8 Feb 2022. 1 May 2022.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.antiquetrader.com/collectibles/focusing-view-master-history-value"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.antiquetrader.com/collectibles/focusing-view-master-history-value}}\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	13.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ibid.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	14.	}\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Dunn, Jamba. \'93Actual Instructions for \'91Demolition to Prevent Enemy Use [of slide projectors],\'94 from the US War Department, 1943.\'92\'94\'a0
\f1\i McSweeney\'92s
\f0\i0 , 29 June 2007.\'a0\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.mcsweeneys.net/articles/actual-instructions-for-demolition-to-prevent-enemy-use-of-slide-projectors-from-the-us-war-department-1943"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.mcsweeneys.net/articles/actual-instructions-for-demolition-to-prevent-enemy-use-of-slide-projectors-from-the-us-war-department-1943}}\cb1 \
}