{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c13725\c13725\c13725;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title\cb1 \
\cb3 Earthball\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Description\cb1 \
\cb3 In 1966, Stewart Brand, then a kind of itinerant countercultural 'influencer,' was invited by the San Francisco State College chapter of the War Resisters League to organize a public games event called World War IV. It may seem a peculiarly named event considering the anti-war motivations behind its organizing body, but according to Brand, it was precisely because of this setting that a game-based participatory theater in which to rehearse militaristic competition and aggression was called for. As he was later quoted in the introduction to\'a0The New Games Book, a 1976 publication that chronicled World War IV\'92s eventual successor, The New Games Movement, "American combat was being pushed as far away as the planet would allow, becoming abstract and remote. It suggested to me that there was something wrong with our conflict forms here." 'Abstractness and remoteness' are odd conclusions to draw about American combat, given that the then-ongoing Vietnam War\'92s frequent description as "The First Television War" implied that this conflict, more than any other before it, "brought the war into the American home." One could certainly speculate about the media theoretical implications of the war\'92s tele-visual status for the American public here. However, I would also argue that this \'91abstractness\'92 had more to do with the ludo-managerial, computational gaze of the wargamers and strategists at military think tanks like the RAND Corporation so maligned in popular culture at the time. As the darkly humorous lyrics of folk singer Malvina Reynolds\'92s 1961 song "Rand Hymn" went, "They sit and play games about going up in flames/ For counters they use you and me\'85Who\'92s going to save us from Rand?"\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 But rather than outright reject the game as an abstract, alienating medium, Brand regarded the game as precisely the contested terrain on which the ideological war against war was to be fought, stating, "Changing games seemed to me to be a useful thing to do, a way to be, a set of meta-strategies to learn." In "Theory of Game Change" (a title that seems a likely play on the field of 'game theory' so influential at RAND) Brand\'92s essay contribution to The New Games Book, he elaborates on this: "You can\'92t change a game by winning it, goes the formula\'85 You change a game by leaving it, going somewhere else, and starting a new game. If it works, it will in time alter or replace the old game." Brand approached this game change with a certain avant-garde cruelty, hoping to violently (though safely) refamiliarize the participants of World War IV with the bodily experience of battle. This game was to be called "Slaughter." The goal was to shock the participants out of the abstract, remote frame of cold war militarism and " let them understand war by appreciating and experiencing the source of it within themselves." Returning to another quote from Brand in\'a0The New Games Book\'92s introduction: "I invented [Slaughter] because all the peaceniks I was dealing with seemed very much out of touch with their bodies in an unhealthy way. Consequently, they were starting to project a heaviness on a personal level that was just as bad as the heaviness we were projecting in Vietnam."\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Yet in another of the games Brand proposed at World War IV, we find a surprising affinity between the aesthetic motivations of RAND and Brand. Titled "Earthball," it would especially set the tone for much of Brand\'92s later work in Whole Earth Catalog and the New Games Movement.\'a0The New Games Book\'a0introduction offers an insightful account: "Stewart hauled out a six-foot diameter canvas and rubber pushball of the type he had played with in Army bootcamp traning. This one had been painted with continents, oceans, and cloud swirls\'97the first Earthball\'85 [He] announced over a megaphone, 'There are two kinds of people in the world: those who want to push the Earth over the row of flags at that end of the field, and those who want to push it over the fence at the other end. Go to it.'" As the game unfolded, the players would then push and toss the inflated globe from end to end, but "whenever the ball approached a goal, players from the winning side would defect to lend a hand to the losers\'85 [and] that first Earthball game went on for an hour without a score." The game demonstrates the influence of figures like Fuller and Marshall McLuhan had on Brand in regarding global representations as a crucial means of construing our collective sense of self. In the same year as the World War IV event, armed with an LSD-inspired conviction that a photograph of the planet from space would aid in this transformation toward a new global humanism, Brand launched a campaign to convince NASA or the Soviet Union to release such an image. Brand mass-produced a button labeled, "Why haven\'92t we seen a photograph of the whole Earth yet?" and sent them to academics, scientists, politicians\'97in 1967, NASA\'92s ATS-3 satellite (itself a kind of culmination of military technologies) took the first color photograph of the "whole earth," and it subsequently was printed on the cover of Brand\'92s first issue of\'a0Whole Earth Catalog.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 This managerial sensibility of global totality was something Brand clearly inherited from Fuller\'92s notion of the "Comprehensive Designer;" as Fred Turner writes: "Whereas bureaucrats exerted their power by means of political parties and armies and, in Fuller\'92s view, thus failed to properly distribute the world\'92s resources, the Comprehensive Designer would wield his power systematically...Agonistic politics, Fuller implied, would become irrelevant." Fuller is frequently quoted in\'a0Whole Earth Catalog, including on the cover of the March 1970 issue named after Fuller\'92s "World Game" which reads, "I travel around the world a great deal, and everywhere I hear humanity saying, 'We are not against any other human beings; we feel the world out to work properly.'" However, as Turner elaborates, such a position does not in actuality draw a particular long ideological distance between RAND and Brand. Representations like that of the\'a0Whole Earth Catalog\'a0cover or the inflatable Earthball position the reader and player "at the global level, like Fuller\'92s Comprehensive Designer or perhaps a cold war military planner, [where] Brand\'92s reader [or player] enjoys the power of a god to survey the whole earth below him."\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Notably, during his military service, though Brand felt little affinity for the army, the one experience he recalled enjoying was parachute training\'97an experience that perhaps found its way into the New Games Tournament by way of the "Parachute Games." This is perhaps one of the most ubiquitous of the New Games Tournament\'92s legacies. A young child's injury and lawsuit involving the giant Earthball would precipitate the New Games Foundation's dissolution in 1985, but rainbow-colored parachutes remain a common prop in US physical education classes. However, as Brand\'92s own words suggest, these were not innocuous transferrals of a ready-made militarized material culture into the hands of hippies and peaceniks. As Pamela M. Lee writes, "The repurposing of a parachute, the clamoring for planetary forms and the coordination of a mass body as a form of play was all in the service of appropriating, even accommodating, the con\uc0\u64258 icted and violent dynamics of the era."\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Bibliography\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Brand, Stewart. \'93PHOTOGRAPHY CHANGES OUR RELATIONSHIP TO OUR PLANET.\'94 Smithsonian Photography Initiative (archived version), December 31, 2021. https://web.archive.org/web/20080530221651/http://click.si.edu/Story.aspx?story=31.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Flanagan, Mary.\'a0Critical Play: Radical Game Design. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press, 2009.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Fluegelman, Andrew, ed.\'a0The\'a0New Games Book.\'a0Tiburon, CA: The Headlands Press, Inc., 1976.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Ghamari-Tabrizi, Sharon.\'a0The Worlds of Herman Kahn: The Intuitive Science of Thermonuclear War. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2005.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Lee, Pamela M.\'a0New Games: Postmodernism after Contemporary Art. New York: Routledge, 2013.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Mandelbaum, Michael. \'93Vietnam: The Television War.\'94\'a0Daedalus\'a0111, no. 4 (Fall 1982): 157-169.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Reynolds, Malvina. \'93Rand Hymn.\'94\'a0Sing Out!\'a011, no. 4 (October-November 1961), 16.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Turner, Fred.\'a0From Counterculture to Cyberculture: Stewart Brand, the Whole Earth Network, and the Rise of Digital Utopianism.\'a0Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2006.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\cb3 Creator\cb1 \
\cb3 Stewart Brand\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Publisher\cb1 \
\cb3 New Games Foundation\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Date\cb1 \
\cb3 1966 - 1985\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Contributor\cb1 \
\cb3 Alex Whee Kim\cb1 \
}