{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Tushonka, Carne enlatada rusa
\f0\i0 , Russian Canned Meat\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Growing up in Hialeah, Florida, the city with the largest population of Cubans outside of the island, meant that the Cold War was still incredibly present in my community\'92s everyday life, not only in conversations we would have at the dinner table and the news but also in the items that our local grocery stories carried everyday. One example of these \'91remnants\'92 of the 1960s-1980s were the stacked varieties of Russian canned meat, or\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0which continue to be available in many stores across Hialeah. When asking my family members and those of my friends back home about their memories with Russian canned meat, I noticed that nearly all of the of the brands they would list were all U.S. manufactured, the most mentioned being\'a0
\f1\i Levadia
\f0\i0 \'a0(Hernandez-Reguant & Loss). I immediately made the assumption that one of the reasons why these cans were being manufactured in the United States had to do with the demand of earlier generations of Cuban immigrants that were nostalgic over a food staple that fundamentally shaped their everyday life growing up on the island while living in South Florida. After these calls, I began researching\'a0
\f1\i Levadia
\f0\i0 \'a0and learned that the first cans of\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0were actually manufactured in the U.S. midwest, more specifically at meatpacking plants in Iowa and Ohio.\'94 (Smith, 178). The history of\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0goes beyond the relationship between the Soviet Union and Cuba throughout the 1960s-1980s, it encompasses the United States, other members that existed within the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (COMECON) and as of recent has been driven by Latin American countries like Mexico and Nicaragua.\cb1 \
\

\f1\i \cb3 Carne rusa en lata
\f0\i0 ,\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 , \'93defense ham,\'94 are all just some of the names that were given to the several varieties of this packaged spiced meat, first manufactured in metal cans during World War II in the United States (Anderson, 132). According to Smith, World War II was a crucial moment for American livestock producers, in that the heightened necessity for food products that could endure the \'93rough handling\'94 of war aided in drawing them out of the depression. (Anderson, 131)(Smith, 178). These U.S. packers sent large amounts of canned pork to both American service members and allies, a fundamental one being the Soviet Union\'92s Red Army. These U.S. meatpacking manufacturers were almost all involved in government contracts that heavily assisted in their economic recovery, to the extent that they were able to take \'93special request orders,\'94 with one of them consisting of a recipe for\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0(Smith, 178).\cb1 \
\

\f1\i \cb3 Tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0originated from a recipe for preserved meat that \'93had been a traditional product of the Ural mountains\'94 and rather than storing them \'93in jars with salt and fat,\'94 this need for long shelf-life and \'93rough-handling\'94 led to both \'93pressure and heat\'94 becoming a central element of its mass-production (Anderson, 132)(Smith, 178). This request for a canned version of Russian dish, came after multiple shipments of SPAM were sent to the Red Army throughout 1942 when the Red Army\'92s quartermaster requested for a \'93more familiar canned pork product, Russian tushonka\'94 (Smith, 178). As mentioned by Smith, what differentiates canned\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0from other war rations like SPAM, is that these cans did not phase out after the war, rather, they began to be \'93distributed to the Soviet civilian population, appearing in charity donations and on the shelves of state shops.\'94 (Smith, 178). Ultimately\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0\'93rose from obscurity to become an emblem of socialist modernity\'94 not only within the Soviet Union but also as a core export that connected multiple COMECON members throughout the 1970s like Cuba (Smith, 178). The meaning that these portions of canned meat carried radically shifted beginning in the 1960s, where not only did it become this \'93unusual byproduct of the Cold War era\'94 transnationally, but it also served as a \'93highly visible product\'94 that the Soviet Union wanted to promote as a \'93modern food regime\'94 that maintained the purpose of \'93[rivaling] that of the United States\'94 (Smith, 178). With the manufacturing of\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0being straightforward and these products being easily transportable, canned meat became one of the most exported items to COMECON members throughout the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s (Smith, 178).\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Loss in\'a0
\f1\i Dreaming in Russian
\f0\i0 \'a0argues that \'93taste, tone and humor\'94 continue to be crucial elements needed to begin \'93unveiling\'94 the complicated, and often contradictory, histories of \'93Sovietization\'94 within Cuba and also across the Soviet Bloc (Loss, 20). Embedded in these memories that Cubans, many pertaining to the\'a0
\f1\i Mu\'f1equitos Rusos
\f0\i0 \'a0generation, \'93consisting of Cubans who came of age in the 1980s and who were raised on Soviet Bloc cartoons,\'94 one could connect these retellings to Dudziak\'92s arguments of wartime, where this generation is grounding itself in the past, living in the present, and conceptualizing the future simultaneously (Dudziak, 22). This can be seen with Cuba\'92s entrance into COMECON in July, 1972, the moment where one begins to see this rapid increase in imported Soviet foods like\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 . The Cuban government, beginning in 1972 became \'93tightly bound\'94 to the Soviet bloc in ways that went beyond the economic. Yet, this \'93Sovietization\'94 was heavily influenced by these economic \'93five-year plans'' constructed with Soviet advisors (Loss, 20). One example is through the Cuban diet, where recipes began to incorporate\'a0
\f1\i tushonka
\f0\i0 \'a0as the primary meat source, consisting of\'a0
\f1\i ropa vieja
\f0\i0 , or shredded (canned) beef, or stuffed in\'a0
\f1\i croquetas
\f0\i0 , or croquettes and lastly in\'a0
\f1\i picadillo
\f0\i0 , accompanied with salsas, tomatoes, raisins and olives to name a few. There were many reasons why the Cuban government decided to join COMECON, one being that the United States was almost less than 90 miles away, and having the U.S. intervention of Guatemala in 1954 as an recent example, the support of the Soviet military in the 1970s was crucial in order guarantee the future of the revolution (Gott, 239). As Baldacci states, the entrance of Cuba to COMECON contributed to the already \'93rapid change\'94 that had defined the island throughout the 1960s and 1970s with the consolidation of the revolutionary government and the need to seek out \'93a viable political and economic future in communism\'94 (Baldacci, 246).\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Although these three decades became heavily associated with this \'93rapid change,\'94 one aspect that remained constant was the extent to which the Cuban government relied on other members of COMECON for foodstuffs (Baldacci, 236). The importation of foodstuffs was essential in aiding the island against the continued economic war against the United States. The drastic effects of the blockade can be immediately seen less than 10 years after its enactment. The peak year of Socialist country imports into the island (COMECON, Albania, North Korea and Yugoslavia) was 1968, only six years after the implementation of the economic blockade (Baldacci, 236). I believe it is important to note that this canned meat, initially manufactured in the American Midwest less than 20 years prior, transformed itself into a staple that to this day, even though to a smaller degree, still aids the island\'92s active resistance against the U.S.blockade.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Throughout the years leading up to the Special Period, (1986-1988), the second highest food import coming from COMECON members was canned meat, and within this, 63 percent of these food imports were directly supplied by Russia (Deere, 6) (Gott, 287). From 1968 and up until the dissolution of the Soviet Union (even after the end of Cuba\'92s membership in the COMECON), rationed Soviet canned meat consumption continued to be a staple at the dinner table. With the enactment of the blockade and the increase in COMECON foodstuff importation came an \'93initially temporary\'94 rationing programme that guaranteed that Cubans had \'93equal access to scarce foodstuffs at highly subsidized prices'' beginning in the late-1960s, la carne rusa became heavily associated with the maintenance of libreta ration books across the island (Baldacci, 235). These ration books became a reflection of the rapidly shifting relationships between COMECON members and the island, where the lack of certain imports like canned meat acted as a reflection of the faltering relationship between the Soviet Union and the island, but more broadly its entire existence up until 1991 (Gott, 274).\cb1 \
\
\cb3 With the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 came the beginning of\'a0
\f1\i el Per\'edodo especial en tiempos de paz
\f0\i0 , or the Special Period in the Time of Peace. During this period, the Cuban government was actively reorienting itself after the collapse of the country that had \'93provided financial backing for Cuba\'92s socialist experiment for 20 years, and [was] the source of its military security for over three decades\'94 (Gott, 273). In this moment of drastic \'93transition\'94 there was this urgency to 'reorient', to think about the errors of the past, ground them in the present and critically think about the future of the revolution\'92s principles. Yet, in this \'93transitioning\'94 there was an overlooking of the loss of the Soviet Union and its influence over the everyday lives of Cubans, similar to Dudziak\'92s point of the \'93beginning of one historical period\'94 determining the immediate \'93end of another\'94 without critically reflecting on the effects of this three-decade long \'93Sovietization\'94 (Loss, 15). Simultaneously, during this period, Russian canned meat \'93disappeared from the map\'94 and began to \'93[acquire] a new kind of delicacy status\'94 (Hernandez-Reguant & Loss). According to Loss and Hernandez-Reguant, the, now, \'93made-in-the-U.S.A. rendition\'94 now constitutes part of a \'93wide-range of \'91cultural remittances back to the island\'94 (Hernandez-Reguant & Loss). What once was manufactured in the United States and sent to the Soviet Union and later sent from COMECON member countries to the island was now being sent from the United States to the island by the diaspora in South Florida. Loss argues in
\f1\i \'a0Dreaming in Russian
\f0\i0 , that with many Cubans on the island not working, traveling or \'93belonging to a professional echelon that relied on Soviet formation, many Cubans, both on the island and in the diaspora, are \'93less aware of having had \'91real\'92 experiences with them than having had \'91real experiences with products made by them\'94 (Loss, 10). These 'real' experiences occured at the dinner table and to Cubans in the diaspora, occur in their attempts to remember their childhood on the island while at the grocery store or in the recreating of recipes in Miami, for example.\'a0\cb1 \
\

\f1\i \cb3 La carne rusa en lata
\f0\i0 \'a0is a crucial product that communicates Loss\'92 argument, where it brings back \'93complex layers of forward- and backward looking tensions,\'94 more specifically, of a living contradiction, where to one generation of Cubans (Generation Y) for example, it reminds them of growing up during the first decade of the revolution (of this rapid political and economic change that accompanied these two decades), and to others, born in the 1980s, the canned meat\'92s absence reminds them of the hardships that came with the peak of the Special Period in the 1990s-early 2000s (Loss, 213).\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Beginning in 2017, there was a reappearance of canned Russian meat on the island, specifically imported from Italy (El Bolet\'edn). With its reemergence there is a re-inscribing of meaning into these cans, one of these meanings being the continued war that the island is fighting against the United States through the economic blockade. In 2021, there was an increse in importations of Russian canned meat after the island-wide protests on July 11, 2021 with one leading reason being the drastic shortages of food and medical resources. This time around, these varieties of Russian canned meat were being imported from Mexico, Russia and Nicaragua into Cuba. This specific import of Russian canned meat from Mexico, Russia and Nicaragua concurrently show the legacies of the the last three decades of the Cuban Revolution in the present. On the one hand, it shows the significance of the economic and political reorienting the government faced in relation to the rest of Latin America and the Caribbean from the 1980s-early 2000s and on the other it illustrates the shift in the relationship between Russia and Cuba the present. Yet, either the heightened presence and/or absence of these cans continue to convey moments of heightened political and economic crisis. In 2021 this crisis manifested itself in the most recent import that came as a result of the protests against the government where there has been a back-and-forth between Cubans on the island and the\'a0
\f1\i Ministerio del Comercio Interior
\f0\i0 , or the Ministry of Domestic Trade resulting from many of these imported cans being potentially expired (Cibercuba). Whether on the island or in the diaspora, these cans of processed meat continue to be rewritten with meaning, not only by the Cuban government but also Cubans on the island, the government\'92s allies, the United States government and Cuban exiles and migrants in the diaspora.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Works Consulted:\cb1 \
\cb3 Anderson, J. L. (Joseph Leslie). Capitalist Pigs Pigs, Pork, and Power in America. Morgantown, WV\uc0\u8239 : (Baltimore, Md: West Virginia University Press, Project MUSE, 2019.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Baldacci, Alexis. \'93A Little Bit of Magic: Nitza Villapol, the Cuban Diet, and the Socialist State, 1959\'961983.\'94 Journal of Latin American Cultural Studies 30, no. 2 (April 3, 2021): 233\'9649.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1080/13569325.2021.1919607."}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://doi.org/10.1080/13569325.2021.1919607.}}\cb1 \
\
\cb3 CiberCuba. \'93Gobierno cubano desmiente que latas de carne rusa entregadas gratis est\'e9n vencidas,\'94 August 1, 2021.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cibercuba.com/noticias/2021-08-01-u1-e43231-s27061-gobierno-cubano-desmiente-latas-carne-rusa-entregadas-gratis."}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.cibercuba.com/noticias/2021-08-01-u1-e43231-s27061-gobierno-cubano-desmiente-latas-carne-rusa-entregadas-gratis.}}\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Dudziak, Mary L. War Time\uc0\u8239 : An Idea, Its History, Its Consequences. New York: Oxford University Press, c2012.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 EL BOLET\'cdN. \'93Reaparece en Cuba la carne rusa,\'94 November 18, 2017.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.elboletin.com/reaparece-en-cuba-la-carne-rusa/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.elboletin.com/reaparece-en-cuba-la-carne-rusa/}}.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Gott, Richard. Cuba\uc0\u8239 : A New History. New Haven, Conn: Yale University Press, 2004.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Loss, Jacqueline and Ariana, Hernandez-Reguant. \'93CARNE RUSA WITH FOOD STAMPS. By Ariana Hernandez-Reguant and Jacqueline Loss.\'94 Cuba Counterpoints, August 24, 2015.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cubacounterpoints.com/archives/1959."}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://cubacounterpoints.com/archives/1959.}}\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Loss, Jacqueline. Dreaming in Russian\uc0\u8239 : The Cuban Soviet Imaginary. Austin: University of Texas Press, 2013.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Smith, Jenny Leigh. \'93Tushonka: Cultivating Soviet Postwar Taste.\'94 M/C Journal 13, no. 5 (October 17, 2010).\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.5204/mcj.299."}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://doi.org/10.5204/mcj.299.}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Jess Cruz\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Source\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Images Used:\'a0\cb1 \
\
\cb3 First on the left: (first image)\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 20540 USA. \'93Cincinnati, Ohio. Preparing Canned Pork (Russian: \'91Svinaia Tushonka\'92) for Lend-Lease Shipment to the USSR at the Kroger Grocery and Baking Company. Girls Placing Lard, Spice and Onions in Cans before the Pork Is Added. Right: Bonnie Williams, Age Twenty-One, Who Formerly Worked in a Shirt Factory, Has a Husband in the U.S. Army.\'94 Image. Accessed February 27, 2022.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.loc.gov/resource/fsa.8d20179/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.loc.gov/resource/fsa.8d20179/}}.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Middle (second image):\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93LEVADIA CANNED BEEF LUMPS.\'94 Accessed February 27, 2022.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://rodeofood.com/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=491"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 http://rodeofood.com/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=491}}.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 First on the right: (third image)\'a0\cb1 \
\cb3 \'93Canned Beef,United States Levadia Price Supplier - 21food.\'94 Accessed February 27, 2022.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.21food.com/products/canned-beef-1704575.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://www.21food.com/products/canned-beef-1704575.html}}.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Type:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Food\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Jess Cruz, \'93Tushonka, Carne enlatada rusa, Russian Canned Meat,\'94\'a0
\f1\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/11.\cb1 \
}