{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red151\green151\blue151;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Title:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 Donation Cards (Asociaci\'f3n Nacionalista Cubana, Movimiento Nacionalista Cubano, Alpha-66)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec3 Description:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 Pictured above are donation cards that were mainly in circulation throughout the late 1960s and 1970s, the peak years of \'91
\f1\i la guerra por los caminos del mundo
\f0\i0 ,\'92 (the war on the paths of the world), or the \'93war against Castro\'94 across Latin America and the Caribbean deployed by the Asociaci\'f3n Nacionalista Cubana, Movimiento Nacionalista Cubano, Alpha-66 (Garc\'eda, 140). The pictured donation cards belong to only three of the hundreds of anti-Castro terrorist organizations that were orchestrating this war transnationally against Latin American governments and/or officials more specifically that were either allied/in communication with the revolutionary Cuban government (Garc\'eda, 140). These organizations contributed to the bombing of Cuban embassies and consulates aross the region, assassinated Cuban diplomatic employees, \'93harrassed and threatened individuals and institutions alleged to have ties to the Castro government, and placed bombs abroad planes heading towards Cuba\'94 (Garc\'eda, 140). The Asociaci\'f3n Nacionalista Cubana, the Movimiento Nacionalista Cubano, and Alpha-66\'92s membership was made up of Cuban exiles that were central to the U.S.\'92s war against the island throughout the 1960s, many of them directly trained by the CIA with involvement in the U.S. orchestrated Bay of Pigs invasion in 1961 (Garc\'eda, 140). The training that these exiles received began to be exported regionally, where the skills that they learned as a means to \'93destabilize and overthrow the Castro government\'94 in the 1960s were now instrumental in their efforts to weaken the island\'92s existing political and economic alliances across Latin America and the Caribbean in the 1970s (Garc\'eda, 143).\
\
The funds collected through these donation cards across the United States facilitated the exportation of these tactics of terror (bomb construction, kidnappings, assassinations, boat attacks), and the legal defense of Cuban exiles that were detained after these acts by the governments where most of these acts of terrorism were carried out, some being Venezuela, Puerto Rico, Chile and Mexico. As seen in Figure 3 (the third image from left to right), these cards also funded the legal representation, bail and retrial costs for the members of these anti-Castro terrorist organizations across Latin America. Some of these members consisted of Luis Posada Carilles, himself a CIA agent directly involved in the Bay of Pigs invasion, Guillermo Novo, Ignacio Novo and Alvin Ross all three exiles foundational members in the Movimiento Nacionalista Cubano and main suspects of the assassination of Orlando Letelier, the Chilean Minister of National Defense and longtime supporter of President Salvador Allende.\
\
All three exile organizations were raising funds to help these anti-Castro leaders through the distribution of these cards in informational pamphlets, newspapers and also through multiple Cuban radio stations, some mainly headquartered in Miami, Florida during the early 1970s (Garc\'eda, 140). In 1974 only, Cuban radio stations in Miami assisted in fundraising \'93over twelve thousand dollars for the families of two militants associated with the Frente de Liberaci\'f3n Nacional de Cuba who had been injured while constructing a bomb\'94 (Garc\'eda, 140). Similar to Figure 3 (the third image from left to right), in 1978,\'a0
\f1\i La Cr\'f3nica
\f0\i0 , a Puerto Rican newspaper based in San Juan, issued an advertisement for the Cuban Defense League, Inc, which was aiding in the collecting of funds for the legal defense of \'93Cuban political prisoners in the United States, Mexico and Venezuela\'94 (Garc\'eda, 140). The Alpha-66 informational pamphlets that often either contained these literal donation cards, or borrowed phrases/figures from them, were sent through the mail with four-page leaflets that \'93described communism as the mutual enemy of the United States and Cuba.\'94 These mailed booklets also contained a comprehensive history of Alpha-66, underlining that \'93it was created by Cuban patriots for the sole purpose of recovering Cuba.\'94 (FBI, FOIPA # 235,869) Some pamphlets and donation cards would contain self-addressed envelopes that would directly request \'93that donations, checks, or money orders be made payable to Alpha, 66.\'94 (FBI, FOIPA # 235,869) These pamphlets and donation cards were being distributed nationwide, with Alpha-66 delegations (as of 1964) in Philadelphia, PA, Newark, NJ, Elizabeth, NJ, New Orleans, LA and Tampa, FL (FBI, FOIPA # 235,869). Within these delegations, members would request exiles to \'93buy a $1.00 bond on behalf of the organization\'94 with the intention of \'93raising money and resources for a successful invasion of Cuba\'94 (FBI, FOIPA # 235,869). The specific ask for $1-3 dollar donations could be seen on most of the cards displayed above, specifically in Figures 1 and 4 (the first and fourth image from left to right). On the back of the Asociaci\'f3n Nacionalista Cubana donation card (Figure 2 the second image from left to right), in the last sentence, the organization is stating that \'93yes, with a few bullets, and with a few dollars and a few men, we will take the Cuban war on the roads of the world, demonstrating to the world that we will not resign in losing our most precious legacy: our homeland.\'94\
\
The Asociaci\'f3n Nacionalista Cubana donation card Figure 1 (first image from left to right) is specifically referring to the St. Michel bombing that occurred in the early 1960s in Montreal and Ottawa. This bombing caused extensive damage to multiple floors in a building housing the Cuban Trade Mission. Exiles within the United States, specifically the coordinator of the Cuban Nationalist Movement, Felipe Rivero in Miami, declared in April 1967 that his organization was responsible for the bombing of the Cuban embassy in Ottawa (The Gazette). There is a possibility that this donation card was created as a means to fund the appeal that Rivero was trying to file against the final U.S. ruling that he was to be \'93banished from the United States last July [1966] after a special inquiry [ruling] that he headed a terrorist organization.\'94 (The Gazette).\
\
The involvement of Luis Crespo and Humberto Lopez Jr, both members of the National Cuban Liberation Front, demonstrate exactly how \'93veterans of guerrilla campaigns against Castro backed in another era by the CIA\'94 began to deploy the same tactics of terror that they were trained to orchestrate against the island, regionally across Latin America and the Caribbean (Washington Post Outlook, C1). Before the 1970s, Lopez contributed to an agency-financed program based in Nicaragua while Crespo was a member of the CIA\'92s commando teams, operating from Miami during the years of the Kennedy administration. Both were trained \'93in the use of explosives and sabotage techniques before being sent on raids to Cuba\'94 (Washington Post Outlook, C1). The formal halting of CIA paramilitary operations in 1965 by President Johnson led Crespo to leave the agency and \'93[mounted] independence raids with other agency veterans\'94 across Venezuela, \'93turning to terrorism as the only tactic available\'94 once Customs and the Coast Guard began arresting members of these anti-Castro terrorist organizations (Washington Post Outlook, C2). Garc\'eda in Havana USA, details how this \'91turning point\'92 reveals how \'93interlocked\'94 the membership of these terrorist groups were, in that many of the veterans that \'93committed acts of violence worked on behalf of three or four different groups\'94 (Garc\'eda, 142). Many Cuban exiles involved in CIA paramilitary operations a few years prior to the mid-1970s were heavily intertwined within the frequent emergence of \'93splinter groups,\'94 and the rapid dissemination of others as an attempt to \'93give the impression that there were more terrorists than there actually were during this decade (Garc\'eda, 142). The Washington Outlook in 1967 quotes Crespo stating his dedication to \'93the cause of \'91liberating\'92 Cuba\'94 as one where he has been paid \'93richly in moral payments,\'94 a term that I believe is representative of how these donation cards were being reproduced and shared (Washington Outlook, C3). These donation cards acted as \'93moral payments,\'94 for the Cuban exiles that were \'91expected\'92 to donate; in that, one felt as if they needed to prove their \'91Cubanness\'92 to the delegation. The language that is being used in these cards communicate the \'91moral\'92 element of this payment, as seen in Figures 1 and 4 (from left to right). In both of these cards, there is either a use of \'91we\'92 in reference to a shared homeland, or, there is the saying \'93Cuba is saved or the world sinks.\'94 Both cards are using this sense of urgency, and a language of a long-awaited battle, as a means to get Cuban exiles within the United States to prove their political commitment through a \'93moral payment\'94 to these anti-Castro terrorist organizations (Washington Outlook, C3). This sense of urgency, specifically through the word \'93sinks\'94 reminds me of Dudziak\'92s argument of this \'93assumption of temporariness\'94 where, in this context, the acts of anti-Castro terrorist leaders, like those of Crespo and Lopez Jr are justified due to them being \'93driven or determined by time\'94 (Dudziak, 4). Both the reproduction of these donation cards and how they are directly funding these terrorist organizations are justified as \'91wartime,\'92 with the shift towards \'91peacetime\'92 being \'91guaranteed\'92 with the \'91liberation\'92 of Cuba from communism (Dudziak, 4).\
\
The \'93false assumption that there is an aberration\'94 between Johnson\'92s halting of CIA paramilitary campaigns\'94 and the continued infliction of terror across Latin America and the Caribbean by U.S. backed (either formally or informally) anti-Castro terrorist organizations, is an example of Dudziak\'92s argument of how this \'93culture of irresponsibility\'94 is perpetuated, where this formal \'91halting\'92 acts as an absolution of all responsibility, yet, these organizations are deploying what they were taught by the CIA less than a decade prior (Dudziak, 8).\
\
\
Translation (figures going from left to right)\
\
Figure #1: (title) Confidential Bond, (bottom line) Cuba is saved, or the world sinks!\
\
Figure #2: (title) Montreal Edition, This Edition of Bonds, is the first one that the Cuban Nationalist Association makes in its five years of struggle against Marxist-Leninist Internationalism and its accomplices, the traitors that are now helping them with their trade/business are maintaining the Red Tyranny in Cuba. It is confidential, since the A.N.C. is in the first phase of its struggle, there is not a public collection of donations, drawing on the help of a limited amount of people, carefully chosen because of their integrity and patriotism, we estimate that this help will be more than sufficient to precipitate the chain of reactions from our enemy, that will have as a consequence, the liberation of Cuba. Yes, with a few bullets, and with a few dollars and a few men, we will take the Cuban war on the roads of the world, demonstrating to the world that we will not resign in losing our most precious legacy: our homeland.\
\
Figure #4: Voluntary contribution for the completion of the military plans of Alpha-66 towards the liberation of our homeland. Dignity against Indifference!\
\
Figure #5: Bonds for Freedom! An America without Communism.\
\
\
\
Works Consulted:\'a0\
\
Dudziak, Mary L. War Time\uc0\u8239 : An Idea, Its History, Its Consequences. New York: Oxford University Press,\'a0C2012.\
\
Federal Bureau of Investigation, Alpha 66, FOIPA # 235,869, FILE #105-112098 Section 6, Accessed May 2,\'a0\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm}}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 .\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Federal Bureau of Investigation, Alpha 66, FOIPA # 235,869, FILE #105-112098 Sections 7,8,\'a0Accessed May 2,\'a0\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm}}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 .\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Federal Bureau of Investigation, Alpha 66, FOIPA #235,869, FILE #105-112098 Sections 9-11,\'a0Accessed May 2,\'a0\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm}}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 .\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Garc\'eda, Mar\'eda Cristina.\'a0
\f1\i Havana USA
\f0\i0 \uc0\u8239 
\f1\i : Cuban Exiles and Cuban Americans in South Florida, 1959-1994
\f0\i0 .\'a0Berkeley: University of California Press, c1996.\
\
The Gazette, October 17, 1967. Newspaper articles (1962-1979) \'93Alpha 66.\'94 Accessed May 2, 2022.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm"}}{\fldrslt \ul \'a0}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm}}.\
\
Washington Outlook, November 7, 1976. Newspaper articles (1962-1979) \'93Alpha 66.\'94 Accessed May 2, 2022.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm"}}{\fldrslt \ul \'a0http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66.htm}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec3 \
Creator:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 Jess Cruz\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec3 Source:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 Images used:\
\
Figure 1 \'93Movimiento Nacionalista Cubano (Cuban Nationalist Movement).\'94 Accessed May 2, 2022. http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/mnc.htm.\
\
Figure 2 \'93Movimiento Nacionalista Cubano (Cuban Nationalist Movement).\'94 Accessed May 2, 2022. http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/mnc.htm.\
\
Figure 3 \'93Cuban Freedom Fighters (1959-2006).\'94 Accessed May 2, 2022.\
http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/belligerence.htm.\
\
Figure 4 \'93Alpha 66.\'94 Bonds and Contributions. Accessed May 2, 2022. http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66-bonds.htm.\
\
Figure 5 \'93Alpha 66.\'94 Bonds and Contributions. Accessed May 2, 2022. http://www.latinamericanstudies.org/alpha66-bonds.htm.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 \strokec3 Date\
}