{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17460\viewh13420\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Yank's\'a0
\f1\i Magic Carpet
\f0\i0 \'a0(1945)\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Subject:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 war as tourism\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Self-described as a \'93souvenir booklet specially prepared for U.S. Army personnel in China, Burma and India,\'94\'a0
\f1\i Magic Carpet
\f0\i0 \'a0(1945) was produced by\'a0
\f1\i Yank, the Army Weekly,
\f0\i0 \'a0a weekly magazine published by the United States military during World War II and distributed to its domestic and overseas officers. Displaying around 80 photographs of sights in the China-Burma-India (CBI) theater of World War II, the pamphlet follows the trajectory and narration of a nebulous \'93Private Albert Jones,\'94 \'93a young American living in one of the more pleasant parts of the United States\'94 who suddenly receives a \'93very personal and friendly letter\'94 to enlist. After this scene-setting, the narration then moves exclusively into the second person for the remainder of the pamphlet as Jones\'92s military assignments through India, Burma, and China begin \'97 \'93How well you remember that first sight of India,\'94 \'93You would always remember how \'85\'94, \'93And you looked forward to visiting China again after the war,\'94 and so on. The second person mode of address becomes very insistent, instructional, paranoid even. In its ending credits section, the writing, cartoon drawings, and photographs that populate the pamphlet are revealed to been produced by multiple military personnel.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 What is curious about this booklet is the overtly explicit way in which its language frames the U.S. soldier experience of being assigned across the CBI as a tourist and fairytale experience, rather than a military one. The narrator declares, \'93But what Private Albert Jones wants to remember later on, when his wife drags his moth-eaten ODs or suntans out of the closet for the annual Veteran's Convention, is not the danger and the drawn-out boredom of his fighting and his work. He wants to remember his magic carpet travels in the Orient - the time he flew over the Hump, the strange animals he'd never seen before, the nice smiling faces of his Chinese friends, the wild jungle country around the Ledo Road, and the splendor and squalor of magic India.\'94 The images in the pamphlet also reflect this touristic filtering of military experience, with the photographs appearing like typical colonial tourist records of exotic people, majestic architecture and landscapes, and ancient artifacts.\cb1 \
\cb3 The two images that most explicitly crystallize the pamphlet\'92s project of converting the wartime experience into a tourist one are the booklet\'92s cover image and a cartoonish map located a little less than halfway through the book. The cover image is a collage: drawn in cartoon style, a smiling U.S. soldier sits atop a magic carpet, gliding across a photographic backdrop of the Himalayan Mountains. Nicknamed \'93the Hump,\'94 the Himalayas were a crucial strategic zone across which the U.S. air force would transport supplies from India to China during northern Burma\'92s occupation by the Japanese. Some 2000 airmen ultimately died by Japanese firepower or the hazardous terrain, but in this cover image the Hump is transformed into a mere tourist backdrop to a fantastical sightseeing experience; the soldier\'92s aircraft transfigured into a magic carpet. The cartoon map of the CBI region, on the other hand, is as sharp a departure from WWII military situation maps as can be imagined \'97 its location is positioned as \'9312,000 Miles from Main Street,\'94 and the geography of the map is dominated by exotic symbols, such as elephants, pagodas, and even a mermaid and Neptune with his trident. Such a visualization harkens strongly to 16th\'a0century colonial maps of the Americas, as though assignment to a theatre of war heralded the discovery of a New World. By these means, even the military symbols that dot the map (fighter planes, warships, a Chinese footsoldier) become miniaturized to the level of tourist attraction and colonial specimen.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 This framing of war as tourism is producing at least two effects. One is the replacement of the enemy Other with the colonial Other in the soldier imagination. Whereas the western Allied troops are being sent to CBI to fight against the Japanese, the entire booklet is fascinated only with the \'93primitive,\'94 \'93barbaric,\'94 \'93ancient,\'94 and bodily qualities of allies \'97 local Indians, Burmese, and Chinese. Locals alternately personify a backwardness against which American superiority is burnished, or play welcoming hosts to the paternalistic GIs. Instead of the conquest of the military enemy,\'a0
\f1\i Magic Carpet\'a0
\f0\i0 is concerned with the consumption of the allied Other. In its deployment of tourism's assumed identity as a peace industry in juxtaposing travelogue conventions with CBI operations, I wonder how this pamphlet is performing a variation to Laura Wexler's concept of \'93a peace that keeps the peace\'94 (33).\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Another function is an exercise in the control of memory for U.S. soldiers stationed in the CBI zone, to persuade and instruct them to remember their entire wartime experience as one of tourism rather than violence, to be selective and willful witness to their own experience. The pamphlet is obsessive in its appeal to its reader on what he will remember: \'93you\'92ll remember some beautiful Indian women,\'94 \'93You\'92ll remember betel juice,\'94 \'93You would remember the green Szechuan countryside,\'94 ad nauseum. The only wounds that the pamphlet speaks of are \'93charpoy wounds\'94 (charpoy being a type of Indian bed), and the only experience that the soldier is expected to be unable \'93to put into words\'94 is \'93the color and size and variety and magnificence and poverty of magic India.\'94 The silence of the veteran is anticipated as the wide-eyed awe of the tourist. Although in the eyes of the western Allies, the CBI was the most neglected of all the strategic zones in WWII and western soldiers there mainly served in supporting roles to Chinese troops, that does not mean U.S. soldiers stationed there did not see actual fighting. Veteran Joseph B. Kelly\'92s account of his experience in CBI features memories of marching, aerial bombing, and a \'93night the firing on both sides was so loud that we were imprisoned \'85 by sound.\'94 By packaging the wartime experience into a physically diminutive souvenir booklet,\'a0
\f1\i Magic Carpet
\f0\i0 \'a0performs a domestication of the war along the lines of Susan Stewart\'92s theorization of the souvenir, wherein \'93external experience is internalized; the beast is taken home\'94 (134). Published in 1945 but with the exact month unknown,\'a0
\f1\i Magic Carpet\'a0
\f0\i0 is explicitly positioned from the vantage point of a future looking back, when the war has ended, the narrator is safely returned home without a scratch, and can reminisce his wartime adventures with fondness. In this sense the booklet is actively looking towards the peacetime after war and infusing that future peace back into a likely current, ongoing wartime by invoking the post-war leisure associated with tourism. The further fairytale framings and embellishments of the narrative \'97 the pamphlet literally begins with \'93Once upon a time\'94 \'97 further depict war not only as tourism, but as fairytale, time outside history, preserver of both the youth and innocence of the American boy and the primitiveness of colonized Others.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\cb3 Bibliography:\cb1 \
\cb3 Buchanan, Andrew. ""I Felt Like a Tourist Instead of a Soldier": The Occupying Gaze-War and Tourism in Italy, 1943-1945."\'a0
\f1\i American Quarterly
\f0\i0 \'a068, no. 3 (09, 2016): 593-615,855. https://www.proquest.com/scholarly-journals/i-felt-like-tourist-instead-soldier-occupying/docview/1829750699/se-2?accountid=15172.\'a0\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Daugherty, Leo J.\'a0\'93\'91Feeding the Tiger\'92: Background to the War in China-Burma-India, 1941-1945.\'94 In\'a0
\f1\i The Allied Resupply Effort in the China-Burma-India Theater During World War II
\f0\i0 . Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland, 2008.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Kelly, Joseph B. "Memoirs of World War II (an Odyssey, Chiefly Concerning the China, Burma, India Theater)."\'a0
\f1\i Penn State International Law Review
\f0\i0 \'a021, no. 3 (03/22/2003): 449.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Lisle, Debbie. Introduction to\'a0
\f1\i Holidays in the Danger Zone: Entanglements of War and Tourism
\f0\i0 . Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2016.\cb1 \
\cb3 Stewart, Susan. \'93Objects of Desire.\'94 In\'a0
\f1\i On Longing: Narratives of the Miniature, the Gigantic, the Souvenir, the Collection
\f0\i0 . 1st paperback ed. Durham: Duke University Press, 1993.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Siri Lee\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Source:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 antique store\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Publisher:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Yank, the Army Weekly\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 1945\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Format:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 small printed pamphlet\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Language:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 English\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Type:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 military souvenir booklet\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Siri Lee, \'93Yank's Magic Carpet (1945),\'94\'a0
\f1\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/12.\cb1 \
}