{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 (Monsanto) Pesticides\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Subject:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Pesticides, GMO, DDT, glyphosate, Roundup, nursery wallpaper\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Figure 1: Black and white print magazine advertisement for\'a0
\f1\i Trimz DDT wallpaper
\f0\i0 \'a0that appeared\'a0in\'a0
\f1\i Women's Day
\f0\i0 , June 1947.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Figure 2: Defoliated forest and burnt fields resulting from aerial spraying with glyphosate in the municipality of Valle de Guam\'e9z, Putumayo (Colombia).\'a0Caption and photo by Kristina Lyons.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Figure 3: Subsistence plantains destroyed by exposure to glyphosate after aerial fumigation operations in San Miguel, Putumayo (Colombia). Caption and photo by Kristina Lyons.\cb1 \
\uc0\u8232 \cb3 If ongoing war is justified by predicating an extractivist mode of life upon the extinguishment of other modes of living, pesticides, in both their function and history, epitomize this double action of protection through extermination. The liquid movement of pesticides through private and public spaces highlights the arbitrariness and porousness of distinctions between wartime and peacetime and between domestic, agricultural, and militarized demarcations of territory. In the form of pesticide, freshly scented militarism coats crops, decorates walls, seeks out surfaces to cling to.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 DDT \'97 WWII
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Developed in the 1940s by Monsanto and other agrochemical companies as one of the first modern synthetic insecticides, DDT (dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane) was initially and widely used to combat insect-borne human diseases in World War II. U.S. soldiers were issued DDT powder to sprinkle on their sleeping bags, allegedly with no adverse effects. DDT was hailed as another testament to the wonders of modern science, miraculously targeting only unwanted vermin with pinpoint precision, without causing any collateral damage.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 DDT \'97 Wallpaper
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Even before the war had fully ended, the next one was being prepared. In 1944,\'a0
\f1\i Popular Mechanics\'a0
\f0\i0 magazine described \'93Our Next World War \'96 Against Insects\'94: \'93This one will be a long and bitter battle to crush the creeping, wriggling, flying, burrowing billions whose numbers and depredations baffle human comprehension.\'94 This prediction was verified when the U.S. War Production Board released DDT for civilian use in August 1945. This transition of markets marked less the end of one war than the transformed continuation of its mentality and deeper saturation (or rather, aeration) into everyday life:\'a0
\f1\i Time\'a0
\f0\i0 magazine announced DDT\'92s unrestricted release for civilian use on the same page that displayed photos of the atom bomb on Hiroshima.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 DDT was not only widely used on American farms, but within homes. With the full approval and reassurance of the government and a pointed advertorial targeting of \'93housewives,\'94 pesticides containing \'93the amazing wartime chemical DDT\'94 flew off suburban supermarket shelves. One such product was branded as Insect-O-Blitz, alluding to the Nazi military tactic. Another brand of aerosol spray, Bug a Boo, boasted in large, bold print that it contained DDT that far exceeded the US Government standards for insecticides. As one consumer, Sally Edelstein, remembered, the spray imparted a pine scent that felt \'93like bringing a bit of the outdoors right into our home.\'94\
\cb1 \
\cb3 This fragrance infused not just the living room and kitchen, but even the most highly guarded inner sanctum of the white suburban household and arguably the bastion of its moral panic and paranoia \'97 the nursery. In 1947, wallpaper company Trimz launched its line of DDT wallpapers for children\'92s rooms. Among other glowing commendations, one Trimz ad proclaimed:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93NON-HAZARDOUS to children or adults, to pets or clothes.\'a0
\f1\i Certified\'a0
\f0\i0 to be absolutely safe for home use. Tested and commended by\'a0
\f1\i Parents\'92 Magazine
\f0\i0 .\'94\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93BEAUTIFUL! \'91Jack and Jill\'92 or \'91Disney Favorites\'92 \'97 gay new patterns that\'a0
\f1\i protect\'a0
\f0\i0 as they\'a0
\f1\i beautify\'a0
\f0\i0 a child\'92s room.\'94\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \'93DDT CEILING PAPERS, TOO!\'a0
\f1\i Extra
\f0\i0 \'a0protection for your children\'92s room \'97 for every other room in the house.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Upon an obstetrician\'92s recommendation, Edelstein\'92s own parents fortified her nursery walls with such wallpaper. The war was brought home as fixture, security, sanctuary. War as literal backdrop, decorative and child-friendly.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 DDT \'97 Vietnam War
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 During the Vietnam War, DDT returned to the military stage in Operation Flyswatter, sprayed amongst a cornucopia of insecticides across Vietnam as part of an effort to combat mosquito-transmitted malaria. Although sprayed by the same aircraft that showered Agent Orange across the land as part of the more overtly bellicose Operation Ranch Hand, DDT was conceived of as a universally benevolent poison, with helicopters broadcasting the message that the spraying \'93posed no threat to people, animals, or crops.\'94\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 Roundup \'97 Plan Colombia
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 DDT has since been classified as a probable human carcinogen by U.S. and international authorities, but Monsanto has maintained its relevance in military and agricultural markets through more recent products, most prominently its glyphosate-based herbicide Roundup. Sold in 130 countries, glyphosate is the most widely used herbicide in history, and studies have shown that a majority of food products in the U.S. carry its residue. In a way, Monsanto\'92s genetically modified Roundup Ready plants are the closest realization of scientist Albert Kligman\'92s fantasy of the idiophylactic soldier, their very nature engineered to be capable of enduring a targeted annihilation.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 But Monsanto has found further applications for glyphosate. In Colombia, U.S. taxpayers have funded the use of Roundup Ultra to aerially spray illicit crops since 1986, a vivid extension of Operation Ranch Hand into the arena of counter-narcoterrorism. From 1994 to 2015, militarized aerial fumigation of illicit crops like coca was a keystone of US-Colombia antidrug policy. As scholar Kristina Lyons summarizes, crop duster planes sprayed concentrated Monsanto glyphosate over \'93illicit crops, and also forests, soils, pastures, livestock, watersheds, subsistence food and human bodies.\'94 The formula used in fumigation operations was estimated to be 110% more concentrated than the commercially available version, and was also mixed with the additive Cosmo-Flux 411 F \'97 a combination that can increase the herbicide\'92s biological action fourfold. While the Roundup/Cosmo-Flux mixture has never been scientifically evaluated and its use would not be acceptable in the U.S. without prior testing, more than 1.8 million hectares of Colombian coca have already been aerially fumigated with this blend since 1994. Pointing to local health complaints of skin and gastric disorders and livestock deaths, NGOs and rural communities have long condemned aerial aspiration as \'93chemical warfare.\'94 To which the U.S. and Colombian governments maintained that there was no scientific proof that the fumigating formula caused such \'93unintended\'94 harm \'97 that is, until 2015, when the Colombian government finally passed a resolution to suspend aerial aspersion with glyphosate. This came in the wake of a report published by the World Health Organization\'92s cancer research arm that reclassified glyphosate as a probable carcinogen to humans.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Prior to this classification, the only possibility local populations had for any compensation from the government was to file\'a0
\f1\i quejas
\f0\i0 \'a0(complaints or grievances) for wrongful fumigation of licit crops. Yet not only were these\'a0
\f1\i quejas\'a0
\f0\i0 processed, investigated, and judged by the very same agency that operated the fumigations, they were also subject to impossibly exacting demands for \'93temporal, spatial and scalar synchronization between dates, hours, GPS coordinates, crop duster flight plans, illicit-crop monitoring maps and visibly recognizable in-situ destroyed crops.\'94 As Lyons puts it, \'93Disputes over claims, among other inconsistencies, have revolved around mismatching temporal registers, political indisposition, and essentialist logics that are systematically biased against the socioeconomic and infrastructural conditions of rural communities residing in the country\'92s transitioning \'91post-conflict\'92 zones.\'94 As a result, of the 17,643\'a0
\f1\i quejas
\f0\i0 \'a0that have been filed since 2001, 96% have been rejected.\cb1 \
\cb3 In light of such a predicament, and in a manner vividly resonant with what Thuy Linh Nguyen Tu describes in the case of Vietnamese women living in the aftermath of the Vietnam War as \'93a salvage sensibility that does not rely on the progressive narrative of moving on, and the demand for reparation, redress, and reconciliation,\'94 Lyons asks of Colombian rural communities, \'93When state-mediated forms of justice become unlikely or impossible, how might justice be imagined and actualized through everyday material practices?\'94 \'93What other potentialities and limits emerge among communities that are responding to war by cultivating life, which is not altogether separate from death?\'94 Arising from conversations with Colombian farmers, Lyons traces their practice of what they call\'a0
\f1\i selva
\f0\i0 \'a0(inadequately translated as \'93jungle\'94) or Amazonian practices \'97 everyday relational, reparative, and material ecological practices that encompass a spirit of mutual obligation between human and non-human lifeforms; the cultivation of \'93weeds\'94 and nontraditionally commercial varieties that do not require replanting after each harvest, purchased seeds, chemical inputs, or daily upkeep; and a recognition of both the harm of state-sanctioned programs like aerial fumigation as well as the harm caused to the land by farmers themselves through decades of coca monoculture.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 In describing\'a0
\f1\i selva\'a0
\f0\i0 or Amazonian agriculture, Lyons depicts the everyday practices wherein \'93not only people but entire ecologies \'97 trees, soils, plants, seeds, insects, chickens, microbes, and farmers\'94 create conditions for life in a poisoned and militarized landscape. They do so in part \'93by becoming into death rather than working against it in the pursuit of a better life,\'94 where becoming into death refers to \'93a mode of dying that is an aspect of the transformation of being, an emerging into many other living and dying things much like the regenerative decay of\'a0
\f1\i hojarasca
\f0\i0 \'a0or decomposing leaves. This kind of death results from the recycling of\'a0
\f1\i selva
\f0\i0 \'a0life rather than the violence of war, or, what is the same, killing in the defense of growth.\'94 This becoming into death goes together with a \'93germinating withdrawal\'94 from colonizing, extractive, and neoliberal agricultural imperatives. In this \'93decompositional mode of retreat,\'94 families cycle through \'93underemployment, displacement, landlessness, lying low, and the ongoingness of recovery. They were not in the business of imposing conditions to make productive soils or\'97in a broader sense\'97productive lives emerge. Rather, each day Nelso and Elva bring together seeds, manure, eggshells, husks, and vegetable and fruit skins to create conditions for their intermingling in anticipation of what might emerge.\'94 Through such processes, Colombian farmers produce what Lyons terms an \'93evidentiary ecology\'94 that retains the traces of violence while also \'93
\f1\i senti-actuando
\f0\i0 \'a0(feel-acting)\'94 alternative forms of justice.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Such practices continue to germinate consideration in light of a possible reversal of the 2015 suspension of aerial fumigation. Although thwarted for the time being by a decision from the Colombian Constitutional Court, the presidency of Ivan Duque seems determined to revive aerial glyphosate fumigation in order to, as it claims, combat drug trafficking. Under the constant specter of the return of war both through latent past effects and imminent future waging, how do we learn from and imagine ways of living and dying in which, as Lyons puts it, \'93death is allowed to decompose into life, rather than being violently ripped from place, territory, soil,\'a0
\f1\i selva
\f0\i0 , and home\'94?\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Siri\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Source:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Bibliography
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Bigwood, Jeremy. \'93Monsanto and the 'Drug War'.\'94 Earth Island Journal. Accessed May 1, 2022. https://www.earthisland.org/journal/index.php/magazine/entry/monsanto_and_the_drug_war/.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Edelstein, Sally. \'93Decorating with DDT.\'94 Envisioning The American Dream, April 1, 2014. https://envisioningtheamericandream.com/2014/04/01/decorating-with-ddt/.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Edelstein, Sally. \'93Shaking the Suburban DDT's.\'94 Envisioning The American Dream, July 15, 2012. https://envisioningtheamericandream.com/2012/06/18/shaking-the-suburban-ddts/.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 EPA. \'93DDT - A Brief History and Status.\'94 EPA. Environmental Protection Agency. Accessed May 1, 2022. https://www.epa.gov/ingredients-used-pesticide-products/ddt-brief-history-and-status#:~:text=DDT%20(dichloro%2Ddiphenyl%2Dtrichloroethane,both%20military%20and%20civilian%20populations.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Goodman, Brenda. \'93Roundup Chemical in Your Cereal: What to Know.\'94 WebMD. WebMD, August 15, 2018. https://www.webmd.com/food-recipes/news/20180815/roundup-chemical-in-your-cereal-what-to-know.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Grattan, Steven. \'93Colombia Can't Resume Coca Aerial Spraying for Now, Court Rules.\'94 Drugs News | Al Jazeera. Al Jazeera, January 20, 2022. https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/1/20/colombia-cant-resume-coca-aerial-spraying-for-now-court-rules.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Lyons, Kristina. \'93Chemical Warfare in Colombia, Evidentiary Ecologies and Senti-Actuando Practices of Justice.\'94 Social Studies of Science 48, no. 3 (June 2018): 414\'9637.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1177/0306312718765375"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://doi.org/10.1177/0306312718765375}}.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Lyons, Kristina. \'93DECOMPOSITION AS LIFE POLITICS: Soils,\'a0
\f1\i Selva
\f0\i0 , and Small Farmers under the Gun of the U.S.-Colombian War on Drugs.\'94 Cultural Anthropology, 31 (2016): 56-81.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi-org.yale.idm.oclc.org/10.14506/ca31.1.04"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 https://doi-org.yale.idm.oclc.org/10.14506/ca31.1.04}}\cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb1 \ulnone \strokec5 \
\cb3 Nguyen, Tu Thuy Linh.\'a0
\f1\i Experiments in Skin: Race and Beauty in The Shadows of Vietnam
\f0\i0 . Durham: Duke University Press, 2021.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Wills, Matthew. \'93War and Pest Control - JSTOR DAILY.\'94 Jstor Daily. Accessed May 1, 2022. https://daily.jstor.org/war-and-pest-control/.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 1940s-present (2022)\cb1 \
}