{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cardboard lunchboxes\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Archival Sources (left to right)\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \cb3 The series of photographs above depict the orchestrated spatiality of cardboard\'97a gradual unboxing of containers nested within each other:\cb1 \
\cb3 Figure 1:\'a0 A package that contains the \'93menu\'94 of Meal, Combat, Individual (MCI) lunchboxes. This box stores the dinner selections for the next twelve days. The photograph was taken by \'93Officer Cynical\'94\'97an anonymous veteran and current police officer\'97in his blog\'a0
\f2\i Views From My Squad Car\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f0\i0 \cb3 Figure 2: One of the MCI lunchboxes up close, drawn from the same source.\cb1 \
\cb3 Figure 3: The contents of one of the MCI lunchboxes after being opened, also drawn from the same source.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 
\f1\b \cb3 Critical Description\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f0\b0 \cb3 This object story continues a consideration of cardboard and its corrugations as a structure of mundane militarisms throughout the War in Vietnam. Whereas my previous object story on cardboard cribs examined the\'a0
\f2\i emergency
\f0\i0 \'a0innovation of corrugated boxes to transport Vietnamese orphans in anticipation of U.S. evacuation during the Fall of Saigon, this object story traces the\'a0
\f2\i planned
\f0\i0 \'a0creation of cardboard by unpacking the Meal, Combat, Individual (MCI) lunchboxes manufactured by governmentally commissioned supply contractors and airdropped to soldiers starting in 1961. The contents of an MCI lunchbox always added up to 1,200 calories, composed of cans of coagulated meat, \'93bread\'94 which were actually crackers, and mushy dessert. Although the contents of these lunchboxes are fascinating (and disgusting), this object story\'97like the last one\'97is more attuned to the container and context of cardboard itself as a unit of U.S. empire.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Through this comparative consideration of cardboard, I want to think through the longer genealogy of the administrative violence of U.S. empire and its optimizing technologies of materials science and shipping operations. Such a concern with the logistics of cardboard is reproduced by its very producers and consumers. The Quartermaster Corps\'97a branch of the United States Army solely dedicated to the management of supplies and services\'97has released memoranda throughout the 20th century updating the definitional differences between \'93packing\'94 and \'93packaging.\'94 Those who served have also dwelled upon these cardboard lunchboxes; one soldier, now a cop under the screenname of \'93Officer Cynical,\'94 has a Blogger post on his time in the Marine Corps, when all the \'93uniformly awful\'94 food combat rations\'97often nicknamed \'93C-Rats\'94\'97\'93came in cardboard boxes.\'94\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Although the innovative iterations of corrugated boxes were fueled by expediency and efficiency, these musings on cardboard disrupt the intended temporality of the material and its usage. In both the visual and gustatory economy of the War in Vietnam\'97the photographs of orphans, the lunchboxes of G.I. soldiers\'97cardboard functions as a disposable and decomposable substance in the context of military operations. Thus, through a consideration\'97rather than analysis\'97of cardboard, I am committed to inhabiting the boxes and \'93contemplat[ing] attentively\'94 alongside their producers and consumers rather than \'93dissect[ing]\'94 or \'93break[ing] down\'94 the material itself.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 The simultaneous mass production and meticulous engineering of corrugated boxes as sites of calculated care in the nutrimental regulation of Vietnamese children and U.S. soldiers ultimately demonstrate how cardboard is part and parcel to the obsessive paternalistic operations of U.S. empire and its imperial imaginations of indebted surrogacy and humanity. For example, throughout the 20th century, U.S. government officials collaborated with university scientists to produce such as the\'a0
\f2\i Annual Department of Defense Bibliography of Logistics Studies and Related Documents
\f0\i0 . In one hyperbolic 1972 entry, the committee conducted a ninety-six-paged study \'93on the storage stability\'94 of \'93fallout shelter cereal rations\'94 by sampling the \'93general storage condition, bursting, strength, and moisture content\'94 of over four hundred \'93V3C fiberboard cases.\'94 While examining these hundreds of boxes, researchers checked for the \'93breakage of package seals, seams, or materials\'94 to measure the \'93fracture strength and rancidity values of cereal items."\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 A look at the lunchboxes as technological prototypes and as archival palimpsests of the cribs concretizes an earlier speculation on the biopolitical function of cardboard as a mundane military material of population control and social reproduction. In a commissioned report of over one hundred and thirty-four pages solely focused on the packing and packaging of military rations, various scientists tautologized that the \'93primary purpose of military subsistence is to maintain the health and effectiveness of the persons subsisted.\'94 Such an emphasis on \'93subsistence\'94\'97as opposed to \'93sustenance\'94\'97is crucial in terms of the magnitude of militarized care; the caloric and nutritional extent of the lunchboxes are constructed based upon a minimum, similar to how the cardboard cribs were allocated a particular amount of baby formula, diapers, and blankets. The guiding parameter of these lunchboxes is simply \'93acceptability\'94: Realizing that it \'93is not necessarily true that a person will eat anything if he gets hungry enough,\'94 the boxes must simply be edible so that soldiers can continue their military conduct.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 In regulating soldiers\'92 diets, nutrient levels were not \'93amounts necessarily required by an individual but are goals at which to aim in meeting nutritional needs of groups or individuals.\'94 The standardizing logics of nutrition are also reproduced in the commercial distinction between scientists as \'93ration developers\'94 and soldiers as \'93consumers.\'94 In a disturbing origin story blending food science, infantile psychology, and political philosophy, the United States Army characterizes the \'93people who compromise [their] military forces\'94 as consumers \'93generally hav[ing] formed their food habits, including their likes and dislikes, before entering the Service.\'94 As pseudo-parents, the \'93developers have to take into account strong individual differences and changes in preferences towards foods\'94 while realizing that \'93operational rations\'94 unfortunately \'93offer no opportunity for free choice\'94\'97meaning that the rations must be acceptable enough to \'93appeal to persons under extreme physical and emotional stress, to whom food may be the only break from the unpleasantness, discomfort, and monotony of fighting.\'94\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 While managing the physiological and psychological health of its childlike subjects, governmental care but must be consistent but not too excessive across all of the G.I. soldiers (like with Operation Babylift orphans), as edible \'93acceptability\'94 was calculated alongside \'93military utility,\'94 meaning that \'93all rations should be economical of weight and space in transportation and storage, of facilities and labor in unloading, handling, issue, and preparation.\'94 This emphasis on the logistical preparation of Meal, Combat, Individual (MCI) lunchboxes\'97regardless of the actual consumption of their contents\'97reveals the government\'92s preoccupation with cardboard and its efficient capacity to process, package, and preserve the socially reproductive capacity of U.S. empire and its militarized operations. Prior to the MCI lunchbox, the U.S. government commissioned \'93Standard B Rations\'94 during World War II which were prepared by military cooks and required \'93[t]wo to three hours preparation time\'94 in order \'93to prepare a meal for 100 persons,\'94 in addition to extra personnel \'93required for serving and clean-up.\'94 Although B Rations most evidently evoke the biopolitical scope of governmental subsistence on the level of populations, they were too inefficient because the meals could not \'93be prepared without trained cooks, and time is required for assembly of rations\'94 as well as their cleanup. Thus, the innovation of MCI lunchboxes was an optimized solution for biopolitical management, as it efficiently regulated and responsibilized individual soldiers while also flattening differences between\'97thereby equating\'97them and their brothers. Within these lunchboxes lingers a latent history of mundane militarisms and the everyday care work of imperialism. Food fueled, or even functioned as, fight, as MCI lunchboxes had to be packaged portably enough so that its titular individuals could fit \'93cans into socks which they could\'94 then \'93tie to their packs\'94 in Frankensteinian manner while they were on patrol.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 In the context of Operation Babylift, it is disturbing to observe how these lunchboxes became material and metaphorical models for cardboard cribs, and therefore how the \'93packaging of subsistence\'94 as a science researched by the Development Branch of the Military Planning Division corrugated over differences. The shipping cases that contained these lunchboxes\'97often laminated in wax and weatherproofed with asphalt to \'93protect from the elements, rough handling, gas contamination, and insect infestation\'94\'97were identical to, if not the very, cardboard cribs that overheated and blistered Vietnamese children during Operation Babylift. Although serving different age groups during different decades for different purposes, the corrugated cardboard box reveals the many faces of the polyhedron of U.S. empire and the War in Vietnam.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 However, through this comparative consideration of corrugation, I do not mean to exceptionalize cardboard as a substance or site specific to the War in Vietnam. Again, I am more interested in the context than the content of cardboard\'97\'93not the thing itself\'94 as the \'93value of this utilitarian object lies not in what it is, but in how it is used.\'94 Attuning to the context rather than the content of cardboard over the course of these two object stories has allowed me to observe how the material has disappeared from the collective national memory of the War in Vietnam. By attuning to how cardboard is discarded, disposed, and decomposed as an archival practice, I am drawn to a very slow and subtle scholarly process in the study of mundane militarisms. What is remained, rotted, or recycled after the soldier rips open his cardboard lunchbox, or when the Vietnamese babies are taken out of their cardboard cribs\'97all the residues of U.S. empire? This is a question of ecological and economic concern, but it also points to a larger epistemological quandary on how to study historical material that is (although discarded) still leftover, still lingering.\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \u8232 
\f1\b \cb3 Bibliography:
\f0\b0 \cb1 \
\cb3 Defense Logistics Studies Information Exchange,\'a0
\f2\i Annual Department of Defense Bibliography of Logistics Studies and Related Documents, 1972
\f0\i0 , U.S. Army Logistics Management Center (1972), Online.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Erna Risch,\'a0
\f2\i The Quartermaster Corps: Organization, Supply, and Services Volume I
\f0\i0 , Center of Military History, United States Army, Washington, D.C. (1953). Online.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 John Ortved, \'93Soldiers\'92 Rations Through History: From Live Hogs to Indestructible MREs,\'94\'a0
\f2\i History\'a0
\f0\i0 (2020), Online.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Marc Levinson,\'a0
\f2\i The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger
\f0\i0 , 2nd ed. (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2016), Print.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Officer Cynical, \'93C-Rations,\'94\'a0
\f2\i Views from My Squad Car
\f0\i0 , Blogger (2014), Online.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Oxford English Dictionary, \'93analyze, v. 7,\'94\'a0
\f2\i OED Online
\f0\i0 , Oxford: Oxford University Press (2022), Online.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Oxford English Dictionary, \'93consider, v. 1,\'94\'a0
\f2\i OED Online
\f0\i0 , Oxford: Oxford University Press (2022), Online.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Vera C. Mason et al.,\'a0
\f2\i Summary of Operational Rations
\f0\i0 , United States Army Natick Research & Development Laboratories (1982), Online.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Minh Huynh Vu\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 1945 to 1975\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Format:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cardboard, corrugation, lunchbox, cargo\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Collection:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mundanemilitarisms.com/collections/show/1"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 Category 1: Lorem Ipsum}}\cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \ulnone \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Minh Huynh Vu, \'93Cardboard lunchboxes,\'94\'a0
\f2\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/16.\cb1 \
}