{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cardboard cribs\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 The ongoing afterlife of Operation Babylift is imprinted within the folds, creases, and perforations of the cardboard boxes that cradled over 2,500 Vietnamese children outside of Vietnam, forecasting the Fall of Saigon while fostering an international network of adoption, orphanage, and forced assimilation.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 The above photographs sequence an insidious narrative of U.S. empire, tying an inextricable link between state-sanctioned kinship relations with the seemingly irrelevant and innocuous history of packaging. Left to right, babies are respectively prepped, packaged, shipped, and delivered\'97a makeshift warehouse of industrial intimacies. As material and metaphorical vessels, these cardboard cribs are paradoxical sites of tender torture: to care for cargo\'97to coddle, to count; to cherish, to cheapen; to caress, to confine.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 The legacy of Operation Babylift has been predominantly narrated through reductive statistical reports or recuperative oral histories that reify the United States as a liberal empire of benevolent refugee rescue. All of the photos come from American archives of war departments, adoption agency nurses, prior presidents, and airport personnel. However, a careful consideration of cardboard\'97its folds and flaps\'97as an architecture of corrugated surrogacy disrupts the linear narrative of refugee rescue. Instead, these boxes construct another side of the \'93polyhedron\'94 of U.S. imperial care work, prompting another way of historical looking\'97not seeing\'97in our ongoing reckoning of the War in Vietnam.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Y\uc0\u7871 n L\'ea Espiritu\'92s seminal study,\'a0
\f1\i Body Counts
\f0\i0 \'a0(2014), remains salient in a study of Operation Babylift. Her titular provocation refers to the necropolitical modus operandi of the U.S. Army, which weaponized the \'93number of confirmed Vietnamese kills\'94 in order to \'93chart U.S. progress in the war.\'94 In turn, Espiritu grammatically inverts the militarized term, from noun to verb, \'93to insist that bodies\'97Vietnamese bodies\'97should\'a0
\f1\i count
\f0\i0 \'94 (emphasis in original). Yet, as the archival canon of Operation Babylift reveals, body counts in both senses of the phrase. In an interview with Adopt Vietnam, a modern travel and parenting guide for Westerners, LeAnn Thieman\'97a presidentially-endorsed nurse and adoptee representative during the 1975 evacuation\'97weaves a seamless progress narrative of liberal humanism, demonizing communist rebels as inhumane murderers while praying for rebirth and renewal back at the U.S. homelands.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 \'93The last planeload of orphans leaving Saigon for America had blown up shortly after takeoff. It was still unknown whether it had been shot down or sabotaged [neither was the case, as the first plane\'97a Lockheed C-5A Galaxy crashed due to human error and structural failure] \'85 Would history repeat itself?... I began to say the Lord\'92s Prayer as the plane taxied down the runway \'85 Finally the American captain spoke. \'91We are out of range of the Vietcong. We are safe. We are going home.\'92 ... We were part of a plan that could make a difference in the world.\'94\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 In a twisted perversion of Espiritu\'92s grammatical reformulation, here Thieman orally and visually registers how the newly domesticated orphans count\'a0
\f1\i especially because of
\f0\i0 \'a0the count of previously deceased orphans.\'a0
\f1\i Counting
\f0\i0 , then, is not solely numerical but simultaneously affective\'97a hard and soft imperial violence operationalized through the assignment of value in relation to economy, emotionality, and emergency.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 The cardboard cribs\'97itself a disturbing phrase\'97are ephemeral sites of evidence to inhabit and intimate the mass production of intimacies as imperial commodities. Although the babies counted as helpless victims, they were nevertheless counted as numbers on budget reports and death ledgers. While indexing the possibility of life for the Vietnamese orphans, the photograph(er)s are insistent in centralizing the cardboard boxes, their geometrical standardization, and their ensconced situatedness within military and commercial aircrafts.\cb1 \
\cb3 Aesthetically, the cardboard sutures material and directional uniformity into each photograph while structuring viewers\'92 gaze based on the absence or presence of babies. One cannot avoid the foreshadowed conscription of the Vietnamese children, eerily organized rank and file in the third photograph, or their ceremonial assimilation into America, marked by the multiracial and linear descent from the plane in the fourth photograph. Who(se) were these babies in the unnamed boxes? Upon departure and arrival, whom were healthy, sick, or dead? The standardization of these cardboard boxes and their obfuscating corrugations preclude these questions of existence.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 The aesthetic operations of cardboard were part and parcel to the material\'92s economic and legal motivations starting in the mid 1960s. In early 1965, as U.S. military presence grew in South Vietnam, a region marked by a lack of infrastructural development, the government faced \'93what may have been the greatest\'a0
\f1\i logistical mess
\f0\i0 \'a0in the history of U.S. armed forces\'94 (emphasis mine). To \'93clean up\'94 this mess, the U.S. military consulted entrepreneur Malcolm McLean, the founder of the \'93containerization\'94 movement who devised a \'93way in which cargo could be shifted seamlessly from trucks to ships to trains, without loss of delay.\'94 Contracted by the U.S. government, McLean built ports along the Vietnam border which would create a robust economy of exports; his ships \'93delivered 1,200 containers a month to Vietnam\'94 efficiently and reliably. Given its logistical economy, the War in Vietnam is regarded as giving \'93birth to the container\'94\'97not just specifically McLean\'92s shipping vessel, but synecdochally modern-day global trade and its logics of standardized package and delivery. By law, materials sent to and from the U.S. federal government must be packaged in V3c boxes, which are corrugated \'93military shipping containers\'94 that are \'93chemically treated\'94 using \'93weatherized corrugated fiberboard\'94 to protect \'93products manufactured exclusively for the government.\'94 During the active combat phase of the War in Vietnam, these V3c boxes were filled with military rations, explosive, and ammo to fuel soldiers and machines.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 However, during American withdrawal from Vietnam\'97through de-escalatory programs such as Operation Babylift\'97we see the retooling and resignifying of V3c boxes. Note the tiny \'93V3c\'94 imprints in the first and second photos. Although miniscule, this detail profoundly illuminates the imaginative, innovative, and industrious logics of U.S. imperialism. Consistent in form but inconsistent in function across the decade, the cardboard containers\'97then for nukes but now for newborns\'97reveal the fungibilizing logics of commodification. Crates then cradles, cardboard functioned as the medium to convert children qua cargo. As much as Operation Babylift was rationalized through ethical and sentimental imperative, the policy\'92s underpinning logics ultimately root back to its own name. A matter of market logistics, the Operation conceived children as quantities\'97unnamed and categorized by size and price. Some boxes held up to three babies (bottom of the second photograph), and processing centers, such as one in San Francisco, kept inventory: \'937,886 bottles of formula, at least 10,000 disposable diapers, 2,000 cotton tipped swabs and 750 cotton balls, 1,440 aspirin tablets, gallons of baby powder, ointment by the bushel, toothpaste and towels.\'94 In his memoir after the legal end to the War in Vietnam, President Gerald Ford rationalizes altruism in arithmetic language; he \'93directed that money from a $2 million special foreign aid children\'92s fund\'94 in order \'93to cut through any red tape that might stand in the way of the children\'92s escape.\'94 In this budgetary framework, cardboard cribs were a matter of expedient exportation, not comprehensive childcare. Because the corrugated boxes were chemically coated to store metallic weapons and canned foods, temperatures would often rise and cause babies to \'93fatally over-heat.\'94\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 As spatial palimpsests of everyday militarisms, these cardboard cribs prompt historical pause and reconsideration. If you look closely at the middle of the third photograph, specifically the two children on the rightmost row, you will see that their legs extend beyond their respective cribs; they outsize the cardboard boxes\'92 dimensions. On the one hand, we can look through a paranoid lens, and conclude that the numerical mattered more than the ethical in the biopolitical management of Vietnamese children\'92s bodies; the one-size-fits-all boxes could only accommodate those fortunate enough: \'93to make live and let die.\'94 On the other hand, we can look through a reparative lens, and imagine the alternative modes of embodied kinship and intimacy that could exceed and exist beyond the racial enclosures of U.S. empire and its corrugated surrogacy, rendering inoperative\'97even if momentarily\'97the Operation. Either way, the cardboard cribs capture the ongoing crisis of U.S. imperial care work: Whether \'93emergency or emerging\'94 identities, Vietnamese orphans and adoptees signaled radical transformations of the world order and its structure of kinship.\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f2\b \cb3 \
Archival Photographs Consulted (left to right)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\b0 \cb3 1. U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://blogs.va.gov/VAntage/69909/operation-babylift-veterans-receive-retroactive-benefits-va-help/#"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 "Operation Babylift Veterans receive retroactive benefits through VA help,"}}\'a0
\f1\i VAntage Point\cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\i0 \cb3 2. LeAnn Thieman,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.selfcareforhealthcare.com/operation-babylift/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 "Hear LeAnn's Operation Babylift Story,"}}\'a0SelfCare for Health Care, Online.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 3. Vintage Everyday,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.vintag.es/2016/07/operation-babylift-historical-photos.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 "Operation Babylift: Historical Photos and the Story of 78 Vietnamese Orphans Die in Plane Crash at the End of the Vietnam War in April 1975,"}}\'a0Online.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 4. Nigel Brooks,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.fordlibrarymuseum.gov/museum/exhibits/babylift/photography/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 Operation Babylift}}, Gerald Ford Museum, Online.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 \
Bibliography\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \cb3 \'93The Box That Changed Asia and the World\'94 on\'a0
\f1\i Forbes
\f0\i0 , excerpted from\'a0
\f1\i The Box: How the Shipping Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger
\f0\i0 \'a0by Marc Levinson (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2008). Print.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 \'93V3C Boxes.\'94 Package Warehouse. Online Store.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Allen, Kevin Minh. \'93Operation Babylift: An Adoptee's Perspective.\'94\'a0
\f1\i The Humanist
\f0\i0 \'a0(May\'96June 2009). Print.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Espiritu, Y\uc0\u7871 n L\'ea.\'a0
\f1\i Body Counts: The Vietnam War and Militarized Refuge(es).\cb1 \
\

\f0\i0 \cb3 Ford, Gerald.\'a0
\f1\i A Time to Heal: The Autobiography of Gerald R. Ford
\f0\i0 \'a0(New York: Harper & Row, 1979). Print.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Foucault, Michel. \'93Questions of method\'94 in\'a0
\f1\i The Foucault effect: Studies in governmentality
\f0\i0 , edited by Graham Burchell, Colin Gordon, and Peter Miller (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1978). Print.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Foucault, Michel. \'93Society Must Be Defended\'94 in\'a0
\f1\i Lectures at the Coll\'e8ge de France
\f0\i0 \'a0(London: Picador, 2003). Print.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Madrigal, Alexis. \'93How the Vietnam War Gave Birth to Container Shipping \'97 And Changed the World.\'94\'a0
\f1\i digg
\f0\i0 \'a0(2017). Online.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Mu\'f1oz, Jos\'e9 Esteban. \'93Ephemera as Evidence: Introductory Notes to Queer Acts.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Women & Performance: a journal of feminist theory
\f0\i0 , Vol. 8, No. 2 (1996). Online.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Mwangi, Wambui. \'93The Lion, the Native and the Coffee Plant: Political Imagery and the Ambiguous Art of Currency Design in Colonial Kenya.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Geopolitics
\f0\i0 , Vol. 7, No. 1 (2002). Online.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Nyers, Peter. \'93Emergency or Emerging Identities?: Refugees and Transformations in World Order.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Millennium: Journal of International Studies
\f0\i0 \'a0(1999). Online.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Rajchman, John. \'93Foucault\'92s Art of Seeing.\'94\'a0
\f1\i October
\f0\i0 \'a0Vol. 44 (1988). Online.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Sadler, Denham. \'93The Child of the Dust: Operation Babylift\'92s Australian Legacy.\'94\'a0
\f1\i Medium
\f0\i0 \'a0(2015). Online.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Sedgewick, Eve. \'93Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading, or, You\'92re so Paranoid, You Probably Think This Essay Is About You\'94 in\'a0
\f1\i Touching Feeling: Affect, Pedagogy, Performativity
\f0\i0 \'a0(Durham: Duke University Press, 2003).\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Thieman, LeAnn and Carol Dey. \'93Operation Babylift \'97 This Must Be My Brother: Aboard an Operation Babylift Plane.\'94 Adopt Vietnam. Online.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Twede, Diana et al.\'a0
\f1\i Cartons, Crates, and Corrugated Board: Handbook of Paper and Wood Packaging Technology
\f0\i0 \'a0(Lancaster: DEStech Publications, Inc., 2015). Print.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 U.S. Marine Corps. \'93San Jose Support Company Has Unique Position of Supplying Troops in Vietnam While Learning New Job: 12th\'a0District Unit Conducts Monthly Training at Alameda Supply Annex\'94 in\'a0
\f1\i The Reserve Marine\'a0
\f0\i0 (1967). Print.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Wright, Andy. \'93After the Vietnam War, America Flew Planes Full of Babies Back at to the U.S\'94 (
\f1\i The News Lens
\f0\i0 , 2016). Online.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 \
\
Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Minh Huynh Vu\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 \
Date:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 April 3-26, 1975\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 \
Format:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Cardboard, corrugation, crib, cargo\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 \
Collection:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mundanemilitarisms.com/collections/show/1"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 \strokec2 Category 1: Lorem Ipsum}}\strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 \
Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Minh Huynh Vu, \'93Cardboard cribs,\'94\'a0
\f1\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/7.\cb1 \
}