{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red151\green151\blue151;
\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c65882\c65882\c65882;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Title:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 The Politics of the \'93Comfort Women\'94 statue\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Description:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 The first \'93Statue of Peace\'94 was erected in Seoul in 2011. Made by Kim Seo-Kyung and Kim Eun Sung, it is a piece of artwork that portrays a young girl wearing a hanbok (traditional Korean clothing) sitting on a bench. With clenched fists, \'93she\'94 displays a solemn look; lips tightened, \'93she\'94 does not appear to have any attempt to articulate anything verbally in particular, as if the very existence of the statue itself is enough to convey the totality of pain that the wartime sexual violence had forced upon \'93her.\'94 The artwork later was replicated elsewhere beyond East Asia to increase the international awareness of the history of \'93comfort women,\'94 including the U.S., Canada, Australia, Germany and so forth. The international spread has further swayed the already existing nationalistic sentiment/movement and diplomatic frictions in East Asia\'97one of the most recent diplomatic frictions was over a new statue unveiled in Berlin in 2020.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 What the statue that kindles so much controversy of, outcry against, intellectual inquisitiveness about, and social activism for \'93comfort women\'94 across the region obscures is the fact that the \'93comfort women\'94 history had been silenced for decades after the war up until the early 1990s. Just as many other war rape victims, \'93comfort women,\'94 even eroticized and romanticized at times in the Japanese post-war popular culture, were dispensed with in a footnote of the dominantly masculinist wartime narratives. The existence of \'93comfort women\'94 was widely known, but \'93social concern about its gravity was never widespread.\'94 The matter did not receive much attention until the emergence of feminist humanitarian consciousness toward the end of the last century, which prompted some survivors, beginning with Kim Hak-sun as the first non-Japanese survivor, to break the decades of deafening silence on the pain that they had kept private to themselves and buried out of shame. The year 1945, to many, might well be a turning point that signifies a radical disjuncture, separating the wartime fanatic militarism and postwar democratic pacifism in Japan; however, \'93comfort women,\'94 who were either forced or lured into the \'93comfort\'94 system by the Japanese military across the Asia Pacific, continue(d) to live in agony for many decades after the war. The growing public sympathy towards \'93comfort women\'94 since the early 1990s has provoked a conservative backlash and, in turn, decades of subsequent debates that have pitted these conservatives against feminists as well as humanitarians.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 The statue means differently to different social groups, and has the power to galvanize the crowds in varied locales. I first personally encountered the statue (figure 1) on a freezing winter day some years ago in Seoul, when I joined the Wednesday demonstration, a weekly protest calling for justices for \'93comfort women\'94 in front of the Japanese Embassy in South Korea. Standing in the crowds of protestors who enthusiastically motioned their fists in the air, chanting assertively in solidarity in Korean\'97a language that I knew little of at the time\'97for a proper Japanese official apology, I was engulfed both by the waves of Korean flags and the powerful affective surge; a tinge of shame gradually budded and took shape in myself, on the one hand, and a sudden urge to cry washed over me, on the other. For what and whom am I shameful and crying: The Japanese government? Japan? Japanese and Korean people (how to define Japanese and Korean in the first place)? The heroic stories of \'93comfort women\'94 survivors reproduced by the media? The camaraderie of protestors and sight of Korean flags? I thought to myself yet found myself unable to pinpoint the exact subject I felt either sympathy or resentment for, despite the tears I shed and an undeniably real sense of in-groupness I felt during the protest\'97that is simultaneously ethno-nationalist as well as transnational.\cb1 \
\cb3 Meanwhile, the same statue (figure 2) that was displayed in an exhibition in Nagoya, Japan, entitled hy\uc0\u333 gen no fujiy\u363 -ten Kansai (Kansai Exhibition of Unfreedom of Expression) led to a different type of affective eruption. Tsuda Daisuke, artistic director of the exhibition, intended to \'93provoke discussion\'94 by incorporating transgressive works that evoke the unrecognized ghosts that are still haunting Japan to this day, such as war atrocities committed by the Japanese military all over Asia Pacific, the status as well as the role of the royal family, and the history of occupation by and complicated alliance with the U.S.. Three days after it opened, the staff were inundated with tirades of angry protests through calls and emails; protestors swarmed around the exhibition; tensions between supporters and protestors of the exhibition mounted to the extreme; the worst of all was an anonymous bomb threat to burn the exhibition down, which decisively led to the closure after just three days of opening. Kawamura Takashi, a member of the Nippon Kaigi, an ultra-rightist group, and mayor of Nagoya, visited the exhibition in person and commented that the statue that tramples upon the Japanese people\'92s feelings should not be endorsed with taxpayers\'92 money and thus should be taken down. Having to pull the plug with the reason of public safety, Tsuda conveyed in disappointment that the result was \'93beyond our expectations.\'94\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Women\'92s traumatized bodies are reconfigured into and remembered through the mute statues, which are either legitimized or despised by a nationalistic impulse depending on where the statue is situated. In Seoul, for example, I often spotted the statue being decorated with a well-knitted scarf or warm clothing. It seems normalized that people of the city pay tribute and show compassion to a statue that is highly anthropomorphized into an image of any other ordinary \'93comfort women\'94 that we can conjure up in our imagination. Whereas in Japan, the statue might quickly become a point of contention between \'93comfort women\'94 sympathizers and denialists, resulting in both verbal and physical violence. As the diplomatic tensions intensify over the statue-building all across the world, the boundary between women\'92s bodies and the statues blur; both serve as a landscape, though in different times, upon which past masculine violence on the former and current remembrance (or denialism) motivated by patriarchal discourse on the latter are staged. While \'93comfort women\'92s\'94 bodies were done violence on by the soldiers as mere receptacles for them to relieve sexual energy during the war, now their bodies have transformed into a static site either upon which the public performance and preservation of wounded nationalism are enacted (figure 1), or at which massive outcry or outrageous sexist mockery is targeted (figure 2 and 3).\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Though giving \'93comfort women\'94 both visibility and vocality, the mute statues\'97either endorsed or objected by different types of nationalists\'97have morphed women into an archetype, a singularity that is perpetually immobile and listless: to some, the statue immortalizes survivors into a forever youthful virgin girl, who is abjectly passive and wretched, desperately in need of a national, paternalistic protection; to some others, \'93she\'94 symbolizes a curse, an unwanted ghost, that their masculine ego is desperate to efface from the nationalist imagination of the past. Women\'92s bodies are thus tokenized in the form of statue by various groups. Their identities, diverse experiences, and perceived realities are all essentialized into a singular extraordinary moment of violence, largely constructed out of patriarchal convenience and brandished as a battleground for partisan contestation. Such a fixation upon the extraordinary, the static archetype, escapes the affective residues of pain in survivors and subsumes their highly subjective pain under the larger nationalist discourses that are beyond the reach of women\'92s unspeakable interiority. In doing so, we are not only involved in the politics of \'93comfort women\'94 without \'93comfort women.\'94 Also, we are complicit in making invisible the realities of how women continue(d) to live with, live through, and live in the pain that their bodies still bear permanent witness to\'97the pain that has seeped into a part of their everyday rhythms and has probably been inherited by people around and respective communities they reside(d).\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Creator:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Aika Sato\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Source:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Bibliography\cb1 \
\
\cb3 "Berlin allows 'comfort women' statue to remain for time being." The Japan Times, October 14, 2020.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Bourke, Joanna. A History from 1860 to the Present Day. London: Virago, 2007.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Dezaki, Miki. Shusenjo: the main battleground of the comfort women issue. DVD/PAL, 122mins, color. No Man Productions, 2018.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Fujioka, Nobukatsu. Monbu-Daijin eno Kokai-shokan: Kentei Kyokasho kara \'91Ianfu\'91 kanren kijutsu o sakujo saretai [An Open Letter to the Minister of Education: Demanding to expurgate "comfort woman" from authorized Textbooks]. (Voice, 1996), 72-81.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 McNeil, David. "Freedom Fighting: Nagoya\'92s censored art exhibition and the \'93comfort women\'94 controversy." The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus 17, no. 20 (October 15, 2019).\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Qiu, Peipei, Zhiliang Su, and Lifei Chen. Chinese Comfort Women: Testimonies from Imperial Japan's Sex Slaves. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 "Statue of 'comfort women' pulled from Japan exhibit finds new home." Controversial "comfort women" statue exhibited by Nagoya gallery, July 6, 2021.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Soh, Chunghee Sarah. The Comfort Women: Sexual Violence and Postcolonial Memory in Korea and Japan. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2008.\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Type:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Memorial Statue\
\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec4 Citation:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec5 Aika Sato, \'93The Politics of the \'93Comfort Women\'94 statue,\'94\'a0
\f1\i Mundane Militarisms
\f0\i0 , accessed May 4, 2022,\'a0http://mundanemilitarisms.com/items/show/13.\cb1 \
}